Construction drawings are quite possibly the worst possible input for AI. They're dense, symbol-heavy, they're huge files, and they involve cross-references across multiple sheets. On top of that, a dashed line means something completely different to a thick line, and a certain and a minor change in a symbol can mean something completely different. A tag like F6 only means anything if we go to the section view on the back of the drawings. If you understand how large language models like ChatGPT and Claude process both visual information and PDF documents, this is a recipe to burn through all your tokens and get inaccurate results. So, to process this, I've been working on a workflow that reduces the amount of tokens you take to read PDF drawings by almost 50 times and drastically increases the accuracy. And the beauty of this is you can actually build it into all your other workflows. So, anything else you want to do with AI in construction, like prepare RFIs, do quantity takeoffs, or analyze drawings for errors and mistakes, they all rely on the AI's ability to read and process construction drawings. So, I can now do things like ask AI, "How many footings are there in the warehouse structural slab?" I can run that prompt, and then I will get accurate answers very quickly. So, in this video, I'm going to show you the exact process and how to replicate it. But, just quickly, if you do want to access the prepackaged skill, then I'll put a link for it in the video description. The core idea behind this entire workflow is we don't actually want to AI to have to read drawings. Image processing in general, but more specifically trying to extract precise bits of images of images or drawings in our case, is the exact situation where AI fails. And if you don't believe me, just look up the clock benchmark, which measures how accurately AI models can read analog clocks. Now, the other fundamental reason why dealing with construction drawings is difficult with AI is because of typically PDF drawings like this set I think it's 12 megabytes but that would be a relatively standard set of construction drawings and they include references across multiple different drawings. Again, I gave the example at the start that we have a footing on page four and a section view on page 10. So, every time we want to recall information from the drawings or we need to say well how much concrete is there in all these footings it needs to refer to both the layout, the count the number of footings and then go to the section view to understand the depths and size of the specific footing. And basically what this means is stuff that is very intuitive and quite simple for us to do. I have the example of seeing the footing and knowing we have to go to the section view to understand the depth and dimensions or for example we're doing an electrical project and we're tracing a conduit across multiple drawings. Stuff like that is quite intuitive and simple for us if we know how to read construction drawings but because of the way we feed AI information and the technical limitations it has about making precise sort of visual recognizing precise visual changes it is very hard for AI to do accurately. So, how are you going to solve this problem and the process I've been working on and trying to improve over time is that instead of just feeding [snorts] AI a set of construction drawings we're going to do an initial indexing or pass run where we take the drawings and we turn it into a structured relational database. So, instead of actually structuring our drawings by the the page numbers of the drawings we're basically taking everything in the drawings and structuring them by the objects shown in the drawings. For example, there is F10 footings these are dimensions of them this is the source drawing for the information or for example there is a warehouse slab it has a certain thickness or grade of concrete MPA. And basically what you do is you run this first pass of indexing all the drawings and then structure the information in a database format. So, all objects, the slabs, the footings, the pipe runs, the cable runs, the physical thing we're constructing, our database of information that we're going to read and reference to for in the future, we're going to be pulling from a text-based database, which is going to use a lot less tokens to to read, and only if it needs specific information or to check certain things when we actually query this database, is it going to refer back to the initial drawings. And a lot of the actual information on the construction drawings isn't going to be visual. A lot of it is actually text-based. Like, for example, the general notes or whether there's schedules with information in those. So, for that sort of information, we're actually going to use a slightly different approach, where instead of structuring it around the objects, we're just going to extract all the text and turn it into a structured almost like Wikipedia style style approach. This is actually based on the Andre Karpathy LLM Wiki approach. So, for all of the general notes, the specifications, the information, instead of a again, using the always going back and reading the drawings, we're refer we basically take all that text-based information and we extract all the information out of that and turn it into almost like a structured wiki of our drawings. So, sitting above these two databases, we create our drawings.md file, which has a register of all the construction drawings and what is shown on it. It creates a one-page summary of the detail in the construction drawings. Again, every time before we go and read the construction drawings, Claude we instructed to pull in this drawing.md file, so it has this overall context and understanding of what is on the drawings, and then some instructions on how to query it and reference the database. Or, if we're asking for something like, "What is the specification of concrete on the drawings?" it refers to the wiki. And then, only when it needs additional information, does it go back to the actual source PDF drawings. And again, there is a image of each PDF drawing and a text representation. So again, the like whenever we're querying the drawings, we only have to pull in that one specific PDF page if we need to go back and get information from the drawings. So the first time you run this on a set of drawings, it will use a lot of tokens. So what I do is I package this as a Claude skill and I'll say "Can you please run my drawing analyzer workflow on this set of construction drawings?" And it'll go through and basically break up our set of merged PDF drawings into the component drawings and then build this database for us. But then every time we query it, we're going to get faster and much more accurate results cuz it's reading from this database and it's only pulling drawings from the original PDF as it requires. And if you're not familiar with the concept of a Claude skill, basically what it does is it allows you to take a workflow you've done and package this into a reusable set of instructions. So I'll just answer this question on the skill. So it runs. But then going back to this, every time I then want to run my drawing analysis workflow, it just calls this skill and has all this information already embedded into it. Like the concept database structure, the the Python script that goes and actually splits all the drawings, the schema, some output schema examples for different types of construction drawings. So the reason I actually had this idea and where I've copied it from was this idea of BIM models. I saw some an interesting study someone did on how accurately you can do quantities that I got from BIM. And it's not even something worth studying. It's because when you have a BIM model like in Revit or Autodesk, all of the information, all of the different light fittings, all the different walls, they are structured that there's actually a structured database which is the BIM model file behind it. So when AI reads that structured database, it's just pulling the actual numbers or quantities from it. So sort of brought me to this concept that I wanted to test out is is there a way to actually turn a set of construction drawings into a careerable acquirable It's a hard word to say. Structured database. And it turns out when you actually use this approach, it uses way less tokens and it and the models answer more accurately. And it's basically copying this exact same approach that BIM models were just reverse engineering it to create from a set of PDF drawings. Now, I think there is an obvious conclusion to draw from this and I'm coming more and more to realize that there is something our industry does that I think is relatively silly. This entire process would be redundant if people gave the BIM models. But from what I've seen, my experience in the construction industry, that when you're quoting a job, when you're getting sent a package of works, or as even at when you're working for a construction company and you've been handed over the design, you always get given the drawings but never the actual BIM models. So, if someone actually gave the 3D model for which they had created the design, this entire process would be redundant. And from what I've experienced with AI, I I assume this is where the industry is going to go. That more and more we're going to see even contractors who historically have not really been using 3D models, maybe they've been smaller contractors who've just been quoting jobs, more and more we're going to see the BIM models or even just the actual files, the BIM files, and all the database structures behind them being passed to the contractors. But I guess that is sort of an side point. But when you think about it, when someone has actually gone and created this design for this warehouse, a 3D model of the warehouse does exist, which means on someone's computer somewhere there is a structured database of every single footing, the dimensions of it, all of the structural steel. Someone has actually compiled all that information together. So, unfortunately, what we're actually doing with this cloud workflow is we're just restructuring it from the PDF drawings. Now, I guess the other concept that's relevant to this skill that I haven't really touched on, but I mentioned in some other videos is that PDF drawings actually contain two types of data. So, there is the visual representation of what is on screen, but then there is the text layer behind it. So, this text layer, for example, this footing F6, that is a text tag that I can reference. So, also embedded within this skill is, if I just go back to it, also embedded within this skill is some scripts that actually extract this vector layer of data from it. So, we're looking at the visual information in parallel with the vector data. And that's why, for instance, when you when you ask AI to do a quantity take off, it can pull this vector data, and then it can write a script to actually count the number of instances of the F6 footing. So, if you ask AI to do something like count the number of footings, the experience I'm having with the more recent versions of Claude, and again, if you do give it some prompting and some structure around this, it will do it more reliably, but basically, counting from PDF drawings which has vector data on them is 100% accurate. Now, again, where you do not get 100% accuracy with AI on quantity takeoffs is where you're asking it to do things like measure this length of cable tray. Because what it has to do, it has to go extract the scale from the set of drawings, it then has to look at crop that region of the drawings, it has to assume what the scale is, and try and do a measurement in This is where you get inaccurate results. So, the other thing I've actually built into this skill for this example is to understand the overall dimensions and footprints of things. So, instead of when it goes and does a measurement of, for example, this set of cable tray, it does a sanity check after this, and it says, "Well, that length of cable tray runs the entire length of the building. Therefore, it would be reasonable to assume that if the length of the building shown on another set of drawings is 35 m, then again, it can look at that in the database, it can sanity check, and it basically helps it identify these cross-references. For example, if I measure that length of cable tray, I know the overall length of the building 35 m, but I measure that length of cable tray as 7 m, that is clearly wrong. So, we want to start to basically with this database structure, we can help AI formulate this overall comprehension of building. And it's again, that is why in this database structure, oh sorry, this is the drawing.md file. I go back to the actual If I go back to this database structure that is embedded into this skill, it also puts a reliability against each of these measurements. So, for example, if it's using an area measurement, which is medium or scaled, then it's is going to be sort of medium confidence. If it is actually counting stuff, or if there is a schedule on the drawing that says this slab is, you know, 200 mil thick, then it can obviously put a higher level of reliability against it. Now, how do I know this works? Well, I actually got it to run some tests. So, I for example, I looked at some sets of construction drawings and I asked questions about what would be on the drawings, and then I found the answers to those. Then I got Claude to actually test how reliably it could do things like quantity takeoff and query drawings. Now, I want to build this testing process out a lot more because I think has to do a lot more I have to do a lot more to actually improve this process. But what I did is I actually came up with some questions and answers myself. It was 20 44 questions that it checked using different approaches, and these were the results. With in terms of the actual accuracy, if you're if you just have the images or what would be referred to as raster PDFs where there isn't actually this vector layer of data on it. So, for example, I can't highlight the text on this. So, this is actually just a compressed the image. And again, we can't actually do a lot to improve a raw image process, but this had not 86% accuracy. If we turn the drawings into markdown files and split the drawings and extract the vector data, we get 98% accuracy, but with this drawing analysis skill, we got 100% accuracy because within there there were checks and balances as well as just converting to text and pulling from the database. So, this database approach actually improved the accuracy of just splitting and converting to text, which is which was the previous methodology I was using. Now, this is the probably craziest result we got though. If you're reading the raw images, these queries cost 104,000 tokens. If you're reading the text and then referring to the PDF for additional information you need, this used 66,000 tokens. Querying the database used 1,400 tokens. Now, obviously, the part I'm ignoring about this is when I actually first run this drawing analysis skill, it uses a ton of tokens to go through and do it. But, for example, if you have a lot of people in your team who are all reading from a set of construction drawings, then you could run this one or one person in your team could run this skill. You turn the drawings into the structured breakdown of the information in them, and then over and over again, you're just querying the database and you're going to basically anytime someone wants to run a workflow that contains construction drawings, it's going to be 46 to 72 times cheaper. But, again, I need to do more work on this database structure and whether you get gains for having embedded in with the in the database structure sort of templates for different trades. But, basically, the concept is relatively simple. We take a set of construction drawings and instead of breaking them down by drawing, which is what my previous drawing analysis workflow was doing, we want to still have that drawing.md, which is the overall the map of the entire set of construction drawings. We still want to split them and process them individually, but the difference is we're making this drawings.db file, which groups things by the physical object. So, we group things by whether they're a slab, whether they're footings, whether they're counted, and the reliability associated with that. We turn them into this structured database, and then that is our structure of what the actual construction drawings are showing that I can read for very low tokens. For the text-based documents, again, this is based on the Kapathy LLM Wiki approach, which is basically we turn all of the text-based information to it has a front page, which goes on the drawing.md file, and then nested within this might be it might be grouped by concrete, and then under that we have all the information about concrete for the project. We might have a grouping for electrical or for quality assurance standards. And basically, we're having this overall map of what's in the drawings. Again, not grouped by drawing, but we're pulling all the information and putting it into this structured text format. And then we also have some rules built into this, which is, for instance, when you are like so there's the initial way the drawing analyzer skill runs, which indexes and breaks down the construction drawings, which is what I was doing on that other set of drawings, but then there is the query phase to it, which is it ingest different bits of information progressively, so it doesn't use a ton of tokens, and refers to the database. If something has low confidence in the database, then it can go and check the original drawings after that. Or, for example, if it's query about what is the specifications of concrete, it knows to get routed to the specific page on the Wikipedia that contains this information. And then built into this, again, we have this entire sanity checking process, where it's relating things across the drawings. Again, I use the cable tray example cuz I think it's a good one. If I asked it, "What is the quantity of cable tray in uh this section of the building. It knows there are three runs that go across the entire length of drawing and a couple more that go half across. So, it will try to actually do the scaled measurement, but it will also sanity check that against information on other drawings like for example, the entire length of the building if we know that is 25 m, then we could probably pretty accurately guess that this is 3 by 25 plus 7 by whatever the diameter is. That is obviously not going to be 100% accurate, but it's just this order of magnitude check that our results go through to make sure that makes sense. So, just quickly, this is one of the 40 different construction workflows that we have in Contractor OS. Again, every week we're adding to it, improving. I'm going to do a couple more iterations to the skill cuz I want to see whether you get a lot of value from I guess breaking up the drawings by different trades and having template databases for sort of electrical, structural, mechanical. I also want to integrate this idea of sub agents for it where you get certain tasks that you run a cheaper model like Claude Haiku, then other tasks you use something like Claude Opus 4.8 for example doing the visual interpretation. That's some of the stuff I want to add to this progressively. The other thing I'm actually interested in doing is actually working on benchmarking different models and testing which ones and also which harnesses like whether you get different results from Claude Co-work versus Claude Code. But again, we're putting all of this into Contractor OS and our goal is to make it basically useful and practical for AI uh for construction companies to implement AI. We also offer unlimited one-on-one calls to actually help you set up and customize this workflow for your construction business.