I think we can all safely agree that prompting AI to do something or building an individual workflow just isn't that hard anymore. This was one prompt and AI wrote seven inspection and test plans. And if you sat down for a couple of hours, I'm sure you could make this way better. You could link it to your template inspection and test plans. You could refine the output, feed it all back, and capture this into a skill. I strongly believe the true challenge and what we're all going to increasingly see isn't getting AI to do a specific task. It's how do you integrate AI into an overall workflow. So, in this video, I'm going to talk about the AI industry's new buzzword, which is graph engineering, which put very simply is just system design. How do we create systems like a pre-construction system, an estimating system, a subcontractor management system that achieve their desired results. Okay, so going back to the example of the ITP. There's nothing fundamentally wrong with getting Claude to write an ITP, but it always comes to this question of then what? You have an ITP, which folder do you save it in? Who checks that it was correct? How do you verify that it matches the original requirements? Who's going to review it? And then once you've actually built the workflow once, how do you share that with your team? How do you show them how to use it and make sure they're using it correctly? So, even if we turn this into a skill and we call the skill ITP Builder, I believe these individual workflows have four failure modes. Number one is they may make a lot of sense for us, but they won't necessarily make sense for our team. We may have put a lot of thought into the structure of when you run this ITP skill, it might need certain things done before it, it might pull from a certain template right library. Basically, we need to simply and intuitively be able to explain to someone how to run this skill and help them set up the system so they can run it themselves. Because then our processes can scale. And number two is with an individual skill, the output is fundamentally unreliable because we don't have a structured way of making sure that it has the necessary input context and some sort of output verification. Who's actually checking the results from it and how are they checking it? Number three is that the output will probably get lost in a mountain of slop. The thing with AI is this was a single prompt that generated seven ITPs and like eight inspection test check sheets. With AI, it is easy to generate a lot of information. We could generate a thousand ITPs in a day, but that's probably not going to be useful. What we actually need is one high-quality ITP that checks and verifies that we've done the work as specified in the contract and helps us prevent defects. We can very quickly and easily generate mountains of slop. So, we actually need some structured way to check and control what documentation we're storing. If you're not doing this, we're just going to generate a ton of outputs that will never be used. And number four, which I think is arguably the most important, that unless we actually document the process, we can't improve and iterate on it. The first time we create any process or any way of doing things is fundamentally us thinking and us us trying to work out what the best way to do something is. But unless we actually try to roll this out, get other people to use it, work out what friction comes against it, until we actually try documenting and articulating exactly what it does, we can't improve on the process. Sure, I might run this ITP builder and it doesn't produce a good ITP. But if it's one standalone skill, one standalone workflow, and I haven't actually mapped out exactly how I want it to run, it's impossible for me to work out what went wrong, then fix, improve, and iterate on the system. So, that's why this concept, and again, graph engineering isn't specific to construction. It's this new buzzword in the AI space, but I actually think it is a very useful concept. It's a very simple concept. I don't know why they're calling it graph engineering. It's basically just trying to answer the question of how do we build systems that actually produce useful work. These are multi-step workflows where we have both humans and AI doing work. So, in this video, I'm going to cover what it is, why it matters, go through an example workflow of a graph, and explain how you can actually build your own. Okay, so what actually is a graph? Well, simply a workflow that we've mapped out visually. The graph engineering peop- the graph engineering term is just an overcomplicated way of saying that. So, they use some different terminologies in graph engineering. I To me, they seem a little bit confusing. They use the term node, but I would just say a node is a step. So, any step in the process that like step effectively means the same thing. Then, they use the term edge for the input into a node or a step. Again, I just prefer the word input. And then, they have this concept of state, which I actually think the concept of state is really useful. Effectively, what this means is up to this point in time in the pro- in the in the system when this step runs, is what is all the information available. So, you could think of this as context, but state is a slightly more um slightly more meaningful term in this situation, cuz it's also factoring in what the system has produced so far. So, project context could be our background information. The state of the system, so when our when we create our inspection test plans, before this, we've already developed our quality lot register and work and generated our requirements register. Those would also form part of the state of the system. Basically, the state is what the system knows so far that's carried between steps. So, in construction, I'm going to start by talking about the state of the system. I actually think that's quite a useful concept. The state of the system in construction is fundamentally going to be our project folder. The way I recommend running all these workflows is you have your business and your project context. Your project you open Claude co-work or chat GPT work or whatever agent harness you use, you open it within the project folder. This state of the system, everything AI has produced and everything AI knows about the project lives within this folder. Now, I've done way too many videos to go and explain context to you, but if you do want to check out some of the videos I've done on how to structure construction context, but basically it's this idea that you have project context which is your your agent harness open within the folder. Then you have business context which is information relevant across projects. Okay, so context, background information, state is a sort of an extension of context which is what we're producing as we go through and do the workflow. Then we have our steps, so the actual individual steps within the process. So we have effectively six different types of steps. We have an AI step, so where for example, this is an AI workflow which could be something like a Claude skill that runs. In this example, it's taking your project requirements and helping you generate your quality lot register. So what is all the different inspection and test planning you have to do to complete the project. So it has an it has an input and it has an output. We have a planning step which is something that helps actually map out a process. So for example, in this one that would be something like creating the quality management plan. We have a skeptic which does an independent check of previous steps deliverables and checks that they're comprehensive. I was actually explaining a quality management workflow, but I want to go back to my pre-construction workflow. I was actually putting a bit more time into thinking and mapping this one out. And the examples were more relevant. But okay, so we have the skeptic which checks the output of other steps. So for example, we have a step here which before you submit your bid to the client, it does a detailed review of your letter of offer to check that everything's comprehensive. Then we have human task. So human task would be for example applying your margin and your markup based on the risk of the project. That is purely human done. Or for example, uh this this is just a complete AI pre-construction process, but you might actually do your pricing yourself or you might do your quantity take-offs yourself. So, those would be human steps. We have loops. So, loops are recurring tasks that happen through the execution of the project that feed into the project context. So, for example, during the pre-construction process, you could have a loop that goes through monitoring your email inbox to check if any new information has come back from the client and that feeds into your project context. Or you could have a context refresh workflow that once a week goes through and checks the status of different things. So, those are loops that run recurringly. And then we also have decision points and approval approval gates. So, for example, the bid or no bid approval or the decision whether you're happy to submit. So, those could be human decision points. Okay, so each of these steps will have What we really want to map out for each of these individual steps in a process is we want to clearly articulate why it exists. So, for example, in the cash flow forecast skill we have, we why it exists is so you know you can fund the job before you sign the contract. So, that's why we do a cash flow forecast before we submit a tender submission. We have a description of what it does and how to use it. So, what it does. It time phases revenue and cost into an S-curve and then calculates the maximum deficit, then checks what commercial levers we can change or adjust in our contract review. It runs It how it runs. So, it takes your head contract, your sub contract, your estimate, your schedule, combines this all together in a monthly table. We have the input context that goes into it and we have output it output its outputs it creates. So, it creates our cash flow forecast. It takes as input the project context, the contract review, the program we've come up with for the job, and our estimate. Now, some people do these graphs where you have agents handing off work to agents, which for me, I don't really think is a useful concept in construction. I would think every step in the process you would have a person checking the outputs. So, you want small discrete steps, and each workflow is only doing enough work that someone can easily audit the results. So, that is every step in the process should have a specific person checking the results, but then you may also introduce what I refer to as the skeptic step, where as you're taking the results from multiple different processes and running an independent check on this. The reason this works very well, and if you've watched any of the videos that I've done on the Claude Gold feature or loop engineering which people talk about a lot, it's this idea that you can get AI to do a task and check its own work, but it just doesn't work that effectively. It's like, you know, you go to an employee and you say, "Oh, can you do an end of year review to determine whether you need a promotion?" And then just mark how well you've done it yourself. Like, you have to think about AI the same way. You always want to as much as possible split the the AI instance that does the work and independently call an AI to check it. So, for example, the estimate, in several separate So, in two in a couple of steps we create our estimate, we also write our letter of offer. Then we have a final reconciliation check that independently in a fresh context window goes through and checks the quality of the outputs and make sure everything's covered. And then we have phases. So, phases I just think are a way of simplifying the process, cuz at the end of the day you're never going to map out a process so perfectly and know exactly which line goes to each line. So, a phase is I would just put a group of interrelated tasks that I think simplify this overall process a lot. So, the phases of the pre-construction project, so we have the onboard phase, we have the initial offer assessment phase to determine whether or not we bid, we have the bid management where actually set up our plan for doing the bid, work out what all the deliverables are, allocate them to people. We then have our phase three, which is estimate, where we actually build and price our project. Then we have the actual submission to the client, which is phase four, submission. And then some post-submission negotiation, and phase six, which is actually feeding this system back and using it to update our libraries. So, that's a very simple example of a system. This is our pre-construction system. If you do want all the skills associated with this workflow, then we do sell them in Contractor OS. We have got 95 pre-built skills for construction, also step-by-step instructions on how to actually set up a AI operating system for construction system, how to structure your project and business context, and lots of other tutorials and support. So, I'll put a link to that in the video description if you want to check it out. We also have a skill in there, which basically can take your process and creates a flowchart like this. So, this is just a HTML file that you can open and visualize a process. We have a do have a skill that takes your workflow and converts it into a graph like this. So, how do you actually build one of these? Well, it's relatively simple. You just have to map out a process. What is the desired outcome that you want at the end? What kicks off the process? And then spend a bit of time with paper and a pen and actually work out step-by-step what happens between What What are all the intervening steps between this? Now, I would define So, again, with the arrows, you can mark out what information flows from step to step. That That's all relatively intuitive. I think one of the key things with this is you want to break down the step in enough detail that at what point would should someone independently check and review the work. So, this same principle applies to whether you're getting AI to do a step or whether you're getting a person to do a step. And then even just going through this process of defining for each step why it exists, what it does, how it does it, what the input context is, and what outputs it produces. I think just going through, once you've sort of mapped out the overall process, is a very useful planning exercise. And I actually found when I did this for a pre-construction workflow, I found a few things that were missing. For example, I didn't capture the link to the procurement workflow. I missed the fact that the contract review doesn't actually need to be done till the end. So, there are a few things I had in incorrect phases. I actually find this a very powerful planning exercise. And I mean, you can do it in Excel. I would recommend you just do it by hand. If you want Claude to turn it into a workflow like this, you can just take a picture of your scribbles with your hand. But basically, it's a very powerful brainstorming tool. And then once you actually go and build this for yourself, then you can go and start building the individual skills. But if you just start by saying, "I'm going to write a skill that prepares an inspection test plan," I think that's the wrong way to tackle how to actually get useful results out of AI. If you do want a more detailed video on how to actually build AI workflows and skills, then I'll put a link to that down below.