Hello everyone. This is the IRC architect and today we're doing part four 2D detail. Basically a call out or a detail in a simple IC project coming from the previous three videos. If you missed the modeling, the plan, the section and elevation, those videos are available on the channel. All right, so last we finished was the elevation. We're going to go back into the plan. Select my story plan. We're just going to say activate the drawing. I'm going to zoom in and I'm just going to adjust my terrain so it's fixed so it doesn't show up in our plan. I'm going to grab this, go into 3D with the multi-object tool selected. I'm going to press tab twice. Press three. And then we're just going to make it bigger than the drawing. I'm going to say gx bring it out by 1500. And then I'm going to select the other side and press not. I'm going to say gx bring it out minus 2500. and press tab and tab again just to save that. And then I'm just going to press Ctrl S and then we can get going. So I'm going to press note, select the plan, say activate. Then we're going to place our 3D cursor basically there on this wall here at the bottom of the office. We're going to select section. We're going to select east. And then we're going to click on this little plus icon to add a drawing in. You can see it's been added. And you can see here under sections, it's been renamed uh east section X. I can just rename this detail one. I'm going to select that. I'm going to say activate view. And you can see we're in the space. From here, we're not going to adjust anything. We're just going to select the the camera. And we're going to adjust the width and height to be about 1,000. And you can see it's zoomed in, but we want to be up here by the roof instead of down here by the floor. So, we're just going to say GZ and drag this up so it lines roughly with the roof. And I'm just going to turn off my snaps and just say G and kind of center it on the roof there basically. Right. And then I'm just going to change the scale from 1 to 100 to 1 to 10. And we're going to check what this looks like in the printed version. So we're just going to say activate drawing again. We're just going to say create drawing. And then we're going to say open drawing. And then we see that's what our drawing looks like at the moment. So the first thing we're going to do is add in a button. So we're going to create a beam essentially that acts as a button. We're going to hold click on this comm tool. Go to the beam tool. We're going to click on this little waffle grid icon there. And we're going to say create new beam. And we're going to call this uh baton 50. It's going to be a beam. Uh we're just going to say a extruded profile. We're going to not select the profile for now. And we're just going to say okay. Then with the beam selected, we're just going to select this. It's given it a random profile. We're going to say okay. Say close. We're going to snap our 3D cursor. Make sure you turn on your snaps again. Snap our 3D cursor there. Click on the beam tool. Make sure we we've selected our baton 50. And we're just going to say add in. And it's going to give us two points. So, we're just going to add in our beam. We're going to click here and then there. And we're going to press enter. And we're just going to say GZ and bring it up so it's inside of the viewport. Then we're going to go to our geometry materials. We're going to select our beam here. We're going to go to profiles. So this is projectwide profiles. We're going to click on this little drop down. We're just going to add in a arbitrary closed profile. Or to be honest here, we just need a rectangular profile. So we're going to say rectangular profile depth definition, I suppose. Click plus. We're going to scroll down to here where it says new profile. Double click on this and we're just going to say 50x 50. Then we are just going to click edit. And we're going to make the X 50 and the Y 50. And we're just going to click tick to save it. Then make sure you still have the beam selected. You're just going to go to object materials and you click on the little pencil icon. And over here you're just going to click on the enable editing material over here. And then here instead of demo, you're just going to select 50x 50. And you're going to say save changes. And then we're just going to click edit assign material there. And you can see our beam has adjusted over there. Now we're just going to adjust this so it aligns with our whole shape there. We're just going to say G Z up and then align it with the side there and say G Y so it snaps to this corner. And then we're just going to rotate it 5°. So we're just going to say rotate five. Enter. And then just make sure it aligns with your roof. So we just say G and snap it to there. And then from here we can go to parametric geometry and go to array. And we can say new array found. You click on this little pencil icon. And then we choose the direction. So this is the local. Uh you can use the local space or you can use the global space. I'm going to give it 300 mm spacing. Uh let's just check which direction it goes. And press tick. You can see that is the wrong direction. We can see we probably want the X or the UZ direction. Let's just check it out. Yes. Okay, cool. So we want the X direction. For us, we're just doing this detail, but uh if you were doing the entire structure, you would want the batters to go all the way to the end. It'll probably be about 12 or something along those lines. We can check that out. Yes. Okay, cool. And then we just say tick. And then we want to adjust the roof. So, we're just going to adjust it up. We're going to say GZ and GZ and snap it to the bottom of the beam there basically. So, now the roof is sitting on the bats. We want the roof to have a tiny bit of an overhang here. So, now we're done with the bats. We select the roof. Select the slab tool because that's what the roof is being made with. We're going to press seven just to go to above. With the roof selected, we're going to press tab and then tab again. We're going to press two. We're just going to select this edge here and say G Y. And we're going to bring it down by 50. So minus 50. Press enter. Press tab. Tab again. And then we can press N to go back to our view. And you can see we've got a slight overhang for our roof there. From here, we're just going to create a facial board. We're going to do the same trick. Place my 3D cursor. We're going to go to beams. We're going to click on this little beam thing here. Um, I'm going to duplicate my baton here just to speed the process up. I'm going to rename this and just call this fasia 50 and press okay. But I'm just going to select it. Make sure it is active. Click okay. And we're going to say u make sure facasia 50 is selected here and say shift a. And it's going to ask you for a front and an edge. So, I'm going to click there and I'm going to click there. Press enter. I'm going to say G Z so it's in the camera. Press N so I can see it. And you can see there it is. Essentially, we want this to be 300x 20. So, we're going to create a new profile. Select the beam itself. Go to profiles. We're just going to create a new rectangular profile. You can see here it says new profile. We can call this uh 20x 300. Then we just click edit and then over here X 20 and then Y 300 and we're going to say tick. You can see it's adjusted. Then we're going to go to object materials. We're going to click on this little uh drop down and then click on the little uh pencil icon again. And then you're going to select 20 by 300. We're going to say save changes and we're going to say tick. Then you just adjust the facial board. Click the faceboard. Say GB. Snap it to the corners there. We're just going to rotate it by 5° so it aligns with the angle of the roof. Snap it to the corner there. And you can see we've aligned with the edge of our roof there. All right. So now we're going to do our ceiling. So I would click on the hold long click on the wall tool. Click on the covering tool. I'm going to click on the waffle grid there. I'm going to create a duplicate of uh cover 30. So we just say duplicate there. And I'm just going to rename this. And I'm just going to call this uh cover 20. So I want this to be my ceiling. I'm going to say okay. I'm going to make sure that uh cover 20 is active. That's the one we want. And then we are just going to go press seven on our number pad. We are going to snap to the corner of the roof. And we're just going to say shift A or just add. And you see it's been added in there. And then with this selected, we're going to press tab twice. And then we're going to adjust it so it is the width of the rooms. So I'm going to say gy gx gy 3D. Just make sure this is on the inside of the wall. So we're just going to say gy. There. We're going to press tab. Tab again. I'm going to press uh I'm going to make sure this is still selected. I'm just going to say G Z. Bring it up into our drawing and press N so we can see what we're looking at. I'm going to say GZ and then GZ so it aligns to the bottom. Then we're going to press tab. Tab. Select the edge here. I'm going to press N. I'm going to say G Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y And then that will align it to the angle. Snap it to the corner there. And press tab tab. And you can see our ceiling has aligned to that point there. All right. So, all of our physical objects have been modeled and now we can go into the 2D portions. All right. So, let's have a look at what this looks like in 2D. We're going to go back to drawings and documents. We're going to select the uh the drawing there, activate, print, and then view. And there you can see everything's being cut, but these things don't have materials. So, we need to assign some materials to these things. So, we're going to add materials into all of the elements that don't have a material yet. So, I'm going to select and start with the ceiling. I'm going to go to geometry materials here in object materials. I'm going to add in one of the default materials which I will flash up on the screen. And I'm just going to choose sand for the ceiling. I'm going to press tick. This is just a hatch pattern designated. And then select the facial board. I'm going to use sand as well. So, here where it says name, the one I want for the bass is going to be blank. I want for my roof is going to be crosshatch three in this case. All right. So, let's go back to drawings and documents, activate, print, and view. And then you can see we've assigned materials to each of our elements. So, the next thing we're going to do is move on to our annotations. We're going to select our annotation tool. We're going to come and select batting, which is insulation. We're going to choose location with our 3D cursor of where to add it. And then we're going to click shift A or add. It's going to give us this little preview. And basically what we want to do is align the angle of this line with the ceiling. So I'm going to grab this line and I'm going to say GY with the inside of the wall here and say GZ, align it with the ceiling. Grab this one, say GY, bring it just outside of the camera. And then say GZ and align it with the ceiling there. Then once that's done, I'm going to select both. And by default, the baton is now 150 uh thick. And the length is autoc calculated. So you don't have to do the spacing like we used to before. There is a preview, but you're going to see just now that it's not too accurate. But when it prints, it's perfect. But basically, since it's 150 thick, we just need to offset this by 75 mm above the ceiling so it fits. So we say G Z 75, enter. And then we press tab and then tab. There's the preview. It's just giving us the angle, but it's not really giving us an accurate thickness, but don't worry about that. We're just going to say activate drawing, print, and then preview. And there you can see we have insulation where it needs to be. Next, we're doing our dimensions. So, same story. Grab your annotation tool, click on your dimensions, choose a location, and say add. And you can see it gives you a line. We're just going to press tab and tab so we get the preview. And then over here, we're just going to click on edit mode so we can edit it while we have the preview present. I'm going to say g y and then gz to line it up with my uh point here. I'm going to say gy and we're going to do the thickness of the wall to begin with and press tab to get out of that. And now I'm going to add another dimension group just to get the angle dimension. Um so make sure dimension is selected. I'm going to say add. I'm going to press tab and tab. And then I'm going to rotate this by 5°. And then I'm just going to press tab. I'm going to go into edit mode. I'm going to grab this. And we're just going to say G Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y And then that will align it in the angle. And then we snap it there. G Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y And then you see that gives us exactly the right um angle and size. We're going to say E Y. Snap it there. We're just going to say G Y minus one. Slightly sometimes it can be slightly off. Then we're going to grab this and we're going to say shift Bx. Bring it out here. Grab this. G Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y snap it to there. G Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y snap it to there. E Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y snap it to there. And then G Y - one g sorry G Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y minus one. Enter. And then we're going to press tab. And then we have our angle dimensions and our total dimension here. Then we're going to add in a leader line. We're going to click here. We're just going to say leader. Choose a 3D location. Say add. Press tab. Tab. And you can see it gives us a preview over here. We're just going to go into edit mode. We're going to grab this. Say gy uh GX. Bring this GZ. Bring it up. E Y bring it out maybe minus 50. Press tab. And we're just going to move this into the position we want. So I'm just going to say GY. And I'm just going to say GZ and align that element there. And we're just going to go back into edit mode. I'm just going to bring this up and just G Y a little bit further away. That's okay. I'm going to press tab. And now I'm just going to edit the actual text. Make sure to save as you go along. So selecting the text, we're going to click edit text. And then I'm just going to drop in the uh values I want to put in. So it's just a long line basically. It's a specification. I'm going to copy this in from the side, but this can be anything you want. Uh, so it's just a I will read this out once it's printed. But essentially, we've got the specification and then backwards back slashn to give it a new line. You can also do add a literal to add a new line, but I'm still using this method for now. Um, and then we're just going to make it the the box alignment to be middle left. And we can leave it as regular sized. And we can say okay. And you can see it's previewing the text um over that space. It's not always exactly perfect. So, let's see how it looks like when it's printed. Um, but you can see it says 550 mm roof sheeting fixed to timber batterns at 300 center installed, which I've misspelled here per manufacturer's instructions on 200x3 mm steel C channels at 1/200 center to centers at 5° slope per engineer spec. So, I'm actually going to select this and just edit text and make sure that my spelling mistake is removed. So there where it says installed. We're just going to say okay. You can see it's been fixed. We're just going to say print drawing. Activate. Activate drawing. Print it. And then view it. And you can see it is overlapping. So maybe I want to make this a bit smaller. I'm going to select the text. I'm going to say edit. Adjust the font size to 1.5. And we're just going to say okay. And you can see it fits in. We're going to say activate drawing. Create drawing. and then print. And there it all fits in perfectly. All right. So, the last thing I want to do is add in a a fill area just to bridge the gap. So, this would be brick fill, but I'm going to use a sealant. In this case, annotation tool. We're going to use a fill area. We're just going to say add. It's going to give me an area. I'm just going to grab the bottom here and align it with the with the uh wall there. say G Y and G Y. And then we're just going to grab these guys and say G Z and GZ. And then that's going to give us the area there. And we press tab two times. We're going to go to object information. Um collapse everything we don't need. Go to edit. And here where it says object type, you're just going to type in sealant all caps. So this is a default material type, which again I'll put on the screen so you can see. And we're just going to say save attributes. We're going to go back to drawings and documents. activate print and view. And you can see the sealant has been added in there. And now I'm just going to add lines in for the buttons just so I know it's been cut. So we're just going to snap and we're going to go to create a line. I'm going to use a there's types of lines now. So we're going to use a fine line. I'm going to say add. I'm going to grab this edge. Say gy uh gz gy. And then we are just going to basically continue with this trend. So, I'm going to grab that. I'm going to say shift D Y GZ D Y DZ. And then grab that. Shift D Y GZ. Shift D Y GZ. Tab. Tab. You can see we've got some lines in place. That's showing that it's been cut. Activate. Create drawing. Print. And there we've got lines in the buttons. And that's how you do a detail and you can add as much information as you like from there on essentially. All right, that's it for now. Hope that was helpful. Thanks for watching everyone. I hope that was helpful. Just a heads up, I have a coffee page if you would like to support the creation of these videos. Coffee supporters get early access to videos and they really help create the content. So again, thank you. Awesome. Thank you everyone. Bye.