Hey I'm Alan Brito, I'm an architect, and did you know that Bone Sai has dedicated wall modeling tools? Let me show you how some of them work in this tutorial. Uh in case you are not aware, Bone Sai is a free Blender add-on that will give you access to beam modeling workflows inside Blender. And besides that, it will give Blender 3D modeling superpowers when the subject is architectural modeling. Let me show you how it works. First, how to install Bone Sai in case you don't have that. Uh in case you don't have the add-on yet, go to the edit preferences, open the get extensions, and type Bone Sai here. It will uh get the add-on from the Blender extensions repository. Just hit the install button here, and you are good to go. Make sure you enable the add-on, and you will see that Bone Sai will make a lot of changes to the Blender user interface. I have here, for instance, a new workspace called Beam. This is the workspace that I'll be using. And to get started, in case you want to experiment with wall modeling, you need to set up a project. I have here the project setup wizard, and I will select a template. Let's go with the IFC 4 demo template. Hit create project, and it will load for you a lot of IFC types here on the left. And among them, we have a lot of wall types. And one of the cool things about Bone Sai is that it will include a lot of parametric modeling tools here on your uh tool shelf in Blender. You see here that we have a modeling uh wall tool uh dedicated tool to create walls. You can see here the wall tool. And if I press shift A now, it will start creating walls. But what type of wall? You have to select the wall that you want from this drop-down menu here. At the top, we have four wall types that you can select. Let's go with the wall 200. And if I press again shift A, it will start creating the wall. But wait a minute. Uh doesn't the shift A create objects in Blender? What happens to the What happened to the shift A? Uh Bon Sai will make this change uh only if you have one of the parametric tool selected. For instance, I have here the wall tool, but if I go to select box and press shift A again, there you go. You have your old uh add menu to create Blender objects. And how can we create walls? So, let's take a look on the wall modeling workflow. Select the wall, the wall tool, go to the wall that you want to create like wall 100, shift A, and you can start either typing the distance. I just click I I clicked on the first point of this polyline style uh guide here that Bon Sai will create for me. Let's go with uh 5 m. Then I will just click here to create some random walls. Press enter to confirm. And you can keep creating more walls. Shift A. Let's create one here. Let me create another one here. So, I have random walls placed in my project. Now, what I want to do is to start using the uh editing tools from Bon Sai to manage my walls. If you hit If you press the N key from your uh from your keyboard and open here your 3D uh 3D viewport sidebar and select a few walls, you will see Bon Sai wall uh modeling tools. Let me zoom in so you can take a better look. This is all of the options that you have to manage your walls. For instance, let's see what happens here. Let's say I need to change the height of this wall. First, what is the height that BricsCAD use it to create this wall is this walls? You will see the option right here. It uses 3 m, but I don't really want 3 m. I needed this particular wall to have 2.5. So, select the wall. You have the height here. Just type 2.5. Enter. And hit this button here, and BricsCAD will edit this wall for you. Another thing that you can do here, you can connect or extend walls. Let's say I have this wall here and this other wall, and I have this extend option here. You will see a lot of shortcuts. You can either hit the button here any icon here to access the tools or use the shortcuts. For instance, I want to extend this wall until it reaches this wall here. Select the wall that will work as a boundary as the last one, and hit the extend and BricsCAD will extend the wall for you. Let's say I want to connect these two walls. Hit the join option. So, let me find it. Sorry, it's the trim option. BricsCAD will extend both and connect the walls. Let's imagine here another scenario. I created this wall here, but I actually need to split them into two separate walls. And the process here is quite simple. You just need to use this split option. And to use the split, just place the 3D cursor in a in the exact middle or the location where you want to split your walls. I'll be using the middle location, so I have here the edge center selected. Press and hold the shift key, and I will place my 3D cursor here. Hit the split option or the splits tool, and you will have now two walls. Uh you can, for instance, get this wall here, and I will rotate that 90°. Actually, I want to rotate using this point, so I will change my pivot point to the 3D cursor, rotate 90°. No, Bonsai is not using the 3D cursor, so let's change the origin point. Let's go to the object, set origin, origin to to 3D cursor, rotate 90°, and there you go. Now, we have the wall rotated 90°. And what if you need to change the thickness of any of your walls? You just realized that you started modeling your walls with the wrong thickness. In case this something like this happens to you, just need to select one wall segment, open here the materials, and you will see here the IFC material assigned to this wall. And we have the thickness here. It's currently using 0.10 m. Hit the edit button here, this pencil icon, and you can change here again. Hit the pencil icon again, and you will edit the layer thickness. Let's say I need 0.25. This is something that is not part of the uh initial uh IFC wall types. Save the changes, and you will see that all of your walls will change thickness at the same time. Uh this is quite difficult to do if you are trying to, uh for instance, create walls in Blender using just cubes or planes. Let's see Let's take a look into another cool feature here that you can do with Bonsai. Let me create a slab. Let's see, I will begin creating this slab here. Press C to close the shape. And I will move this slab here on the Z axis and I will align my 3D cursor right here. So, uh select any of the walls that you want. Go back to the uh 3D Viewport sidebar and you will see that we have an option called extend height. And if I select the wall and click here, Bonsai will extend your walls until they reach the slab. Actually, the 3D cursor height. And you can extend everything to align with your slab. And this is it. Now you know how to use some of the cool features that Bonsai offers when modeling walls. If you like this tutorial, please give me a thumbs up. Subscribe to the channel so you won't miss any future tutorials about Bonsai and a lot more related to the use of Blender for architectural visualization and project development. And if you want to keep learning about how to use Blender for architecture, I will leave links in the description with a few of my workshops. I have this workshop here called Blender Precise Modeling where I will teach you how to use Blender as a CAD tool. I have this other one here where I will teach you how to do 2D drafting in Blender. Both of them will be in the description with discount codes with discount coupons. And in case you prefer books, I have these two books here. First one is about learning Blender for beginners with the respective translations. And this other one here as well. Blender 5.1 Precise Modeling for Architecture, Engineering, and 3D Printing. Links in the description with the respective translations. And you can download sample some pages here, the resources that I use to to develop the content in all of the books. And if you are a pro channel member, you get those workshops and books for free. So, if you want to support my work here in Blender 3D Architect, consider becoming a member. And again, I hope you liked this tutorial. I see you next time. Bye.