Construction drawings are quite possibly the worst input into AI. Everything about the structure of sets of PDF construction drawings make it difficult for AI to read and interpret them. They're dense, large files full of symbols and cross-references between multiple drawings. So, in this video, I'm going to show you a practical way you can set up Claude Code to pre-process your construction drawings so it is easier for AI to answer faster, more accurately, and with less time and usage. Okay, so the first thing I want to help you understand is why it's hard for AI to read construction drawings. So, the first thing to understand is that when AI sees an image, it doesn't interpret it the same way we do. What it does is it breaks it up into chunks, what are referred to as tiles, and then converts each of the individual tiles into tokens that it processes the same way as text. So, for example, this image it would break up into 16 by 16 pixel patches. Each of those would get converted to tokens, and this image would become roughly 4,000 tokens. So, for general image recognition tasks, this is fine. For example, if you upload an image of a cat and you ask AI what sort of animal this is, it will be able to be able to answer fine because it recognizes that those set of tokens, that structure of the image, represents a cat. But, for drawings, this approach is terrible because the fundamental meaning of construction drawings lives in these tiny features. For example, on this set of drawings, a semi-dash line is a cold water line. A line with two dashes is a hot water line. So, the actual two lines visually look very similar, but they mean completely different things. Or, for example, this line TD7, as a stand-alone chunk of image, doesn't really mean anything until you understand that this is on the sanitary waste water drawings, and that code TD7 corresponds to something in the schedules which refers to a specific type of trench drain. Or, for example, this type of footing and F6 footing, it only makes sense what that footing contains if you know to reference the section drawings shown later on. And not to mention the quite obvious problem that if you just try to upload a set of construction drawings to Claude, even if they're not massive files like 10 megabytes, 5 megabytes, Claude usually won't even accept this as an upload. So for example, this is an 11 megabyte set of drawings and let's see if we can successfully upload it. Because if you read on paper, you can upload files this big to Claude. For some reason, whenever you try to upload construction drawings, it just doesn't work. Okay, and about a minute later it said it failed to upload the drawing set. The file format may not be supported or the file may be corrupted. When we know the file size was only 10 megabytes, so we should be able to upload it and it can definitely accept PDF drawings. We know this cuz if you go to the support page on Claude, they say the maximum files upload is 30 megabytes per file. But for some reason, I've no idea why whenever you try to upload drawings, it just does not work. Now, Claude Co-work does go to some extent to solving this problem because you can open Claude within a folder on your desktop. So for example, I opened this instance of Co-work within the folder that contained that set of construction drawings and it can read and process the drawings and give me some responses. But there's really two problems with the Co-work approach. Number one is just going to kill your usage cuz every time it needs to look at the drawings, it needs to go through a full 10 megabyte set of construction drawings. So probably every time you prompt it to ask it a question, it'll go through 60 or 70,000 tokens. And we're also doing nothing to overcome the limitations within which Claude processes and understands construction drawings. So there's all those issues about cross cross-referencing and a few more that I'll talk about. And I can demonstrate this by asking I I opened Co-work in the folder and I said, "How many footings are shown on the foundation drawings?" And it told me there was a total of 141. And it also said there are it's given that mark to show it's roughly, but we know the actual answer is less than this. So, it has over counted the number of footings. So, what I want to demonstrate in this video is how you can pre-process your drawings to turn them into a searchable set of indexes and specific methodologies that when you then query the drawings, it processes the visual information in such a way that it challenges or it improves on these limitations of using Claude. So, for this same set of construction drawings, I got it to run a quantity take off on them, and it actually answered with the correct count of foundations, and it give given me a breakdown of all the different types of foundations, and the confidence within which it answered the questions. This clearly see the uncertainty. And it's also referenced which drawings it used, so I can clearly see where it has got this information from. It's also using less tokens through this, and it's answering faster and more accurately, because what it's doing is I run an initial drawing analyzer workflow or drawing analyzer skill. It takes all the drawings. It splits them up into individual files that it processes individually. It gives a text representation and image of each drawing. It also creates this register of all the different drawings, the summaries, the cross-references shown on the drawings, any coordination indexes, and an overall summary of the drawing package. And if you're not familiar with how AI works, reading these markdown files and indexes is much quicker and much less token-heavy than having to process 10 megabytes of drawings every time you ask it a question. So, I'll explain why this workflow works, why it answers more accurately, and how it fixes some of these limitations. So, if you do want access to this drawing analyzer skill and the code and scripts behind that it runs to process the drawings, then I'll put a link in the video description to where you can access it. Claude allows you to upload pre-built skills so you don't have to go and build this whole thing yourself. Okay, so this is so annoying. I literally recorded this whole video and then something happened with my camera so I'm have to come back to the start and go off from where I left off. But basically, what I'm going to talk about now is why AI and this is going to be in Claude's own words why Oh, sorry, Anthropic's own words why Claude Well, why Claude Why these AI models fail at image analysis. Specifically, what are these drawbacks are going to be very relevant to construction drawings. So, number one is going to be accuracy. So, we know Claude may hallucinate or make mistakes. That is something all these chat models say. There's always a chance that they go off track and do something random. Definitely, that problem is getting better. Second one is the actual spatial reasoning of the model. So, it says Claude's spatial reasoning capabilities are limited. It may struggle with tasks requiring precise localization or layout. I exactly how we read construction drawings. A dash line means something completely different to a bold line. A slight change in a symbol means something completely different to the other symbol. So, their [snorts] example is reading an analog clock or describing exact positions of chess pieces. So, obviously, those aren't construction examples, but we can see the analogy is there that spatial reasoning is very limited. The other one is actually counting. So, Claude can give approximate counts, but it can't give accurate counts. So, basically, those limitations are super relevant to us. The other source I'm going off with, specifically how AI fails at reading construction drawings, is based on this really interesting paper done by the Florida International University where where they actually created a benchmark for testing large language models for construction estimating. Basically, the four issues that they came up with, again, very similar to what Anthropic was saying that basically these are general-purpose models that trained on all the data on the internet. They don't understand exactly how to process construction drawings. That they actually have quite a poor ability to identify elements on a drawing. For example, the scale, the title block, the fact that this is a layout drawing as opposed to a section view, or that this is a schedule. So, as we're going to see, when we have our process for analyzing drawings, we're going to have in there specific prompts and specific instructions on how to deal with different types of drawings. The other is as an extension of this is there is a set way that construction drawings are organized. There's a general notes page, there's layouts, there's section views. It's essential to understanding how all of these elements cross-reference each other. Then the next point they brought up is the same as what Anthropic was speaking about, which is that they have basically poor spatial reasoning, that they're good at basically seeing a picture of a cat and saying this is a cat, but they're not good at the precise position of things and minute differences from drawings to drawings. Again, when we look at drawings, minor changes mean completely different things. And again, the general construction knowledge is as good as what you could find by Googling. They don't really understand construction processes, or for example, how we would analyze construction drawings in detail. Again, these models are just trained on all the data on the internet, so they'll replicate what is on the internet. Okay, so before I get into the specific workflow for how to process a set of PDF construction drawings, I just want to bring up the most obvious thing to do, which is basically instead of using PDF drawings, get the BIM model. So, drawings are a 2D representation of a building, that's why you end up with these confusing layouts, section views, cross-references, schedules. There's all this supplementary information that needs to go into the drawings to help us understand what they're actually representing. BIM models just circumvent all of this, and a BIM model is basically a 3D structured database of the building. So, using a BIM model, the BIM model has all the quantities, volumes, all that information already within it. So, when you're using AI integrated with a BIM model, which you can do with something like Autodesk MCP connections. You can actually just directly extract all this information without the model having to do this process of processing PDF drawings and trying to infer what they're meaning. But again, I'm not sure the culture in well, the standards in other countries, but in Australia, when you're bidding construction projects, when you're doing construction projects, more often than not, you will never have access to the BIM model. So, that's why we need this pipeline for how to actually process PDF construction drawings and turn them into useful context for AI. And the way we're doing this is with this drawing analyzer skill that processes construction drawings and transforms a set of construction drawings. So, for example, this merge So, basically processes this 11 megabyte set of merge construction drawings and turns it into a set of structured text documents and splits up the drawings and makes it much easier for AI to process it. So, really the fundamental principle behind this drawing analyzer skill is that it uses scripts to do the cheap, easy stuff, which it runs in Claude code. For example, splitting out the PDF documents or extracting the vector data, it does using Python scripts. But the actual categorization and understanding the drawings, it uses AI for. So, within this, we can see it has scripts for building the different sheets. It's got scripts for cropping drawings. It's got scripts for processing and splitting the drawings. And then it's got specific instructions on how to deal with different drawing types and the output format we want our drawing register in. So, it's got the overall skill, which is the process, and then it references these sub-scripts that it runs to better process the drawings and to use less tokens while doing so. Now, when you're building this, I just want to note one point that I find AI always want or particularly Claude code, it always wants to write scripts to do the these tasks. So, understanding what is in the different drawings and building the different classifications. You want AI to do this. You don't want Claude to write a script that does this. The problem with that is it will try and write scripts that do pattern matching, for example, that say in if the title says electrical, this is an electrical drawing, and then tries to write these scripts that pattern match. It is much better to get AI to do this because there's just so many different formats of construction drawings. There's so many minute changes in the way people format and do things that this just doesn't work reliably. So, the files it is going to create is for a set of construction drawings. Again, an 11 MB set of per compiled drawings. It is going to create this drawings.md, which is an overall summary of the construction drawings and what is what is on each drawing and an overall summary of it. So, this will get ingested every time it does a specific task. It also has some instructions on how to query the drawings and to use vector data and to refer to the specific PDF when it is doing things. The second thing it's going to do is create this sheet classification matrix where it has each drawing and it determines what type of drawing that in, what detail is on that drawing. Again, high-level. And again, these are like 5 KB text files, so it uses almost no context for AI to read those. Again, as opposed to trying to go through 11 MB of PDFs. It also creates this cross-reference matrix, which basically says on what on this drawing, what and why does it reference other drawings. The next thing it does is it actually splits all of the drawings into individual PDF files. It has a text representation of what's on the drawing, and then it creates an image of that drawing as well. So, again, you look at the size of these image files, they're smaller. So, again, first AI can read the text file to look at specifically what the data representation of that drawing is, then it can look at the image, and then finally, if it needs to, it can go and extract information from the PDF. This drawing analyzer runs once the first time you get a set of construction drawings, then every time you query the drawings, it will go through this process of reading the drawings.md, understanding the cross-references, the coordination issues, understand exactly what is on each drawing, and then goes and finds the specific drawing it needs. Okay, so, rather than just explaining this and going on and on about the structure of it, I'm going to show you a very simple example where I asked it, "What is the area of the warehouse slab?" And then it told me that there's two ways it could work this out. It could run the polygon extraction, so it basically extract all the vector data from the specific drawing. It already knows that this is the specific drawing it has it on. And then the other thing you could do is look at the overall warehouse dimensions. Now, because I want it to basically do this accurately, I said, "Run both to cross-check." I find when you're getting AI to do things like takeoffs, it's good to have a precise way of doing it, and then it's good to have some order of magnitude sanity check. So, I'd never actually tested this specific drawing though, but it was really interesting to see the results. Using the polygon approach, it got the areas. It said the gross building footprint area is 13,250 m squared, and that the best estimate for the warehouse slab is 12 1/2 thousand m squared. I went and measured this on Bluebeam, and I got, measuring the entire slab, because I didn't actually cut out these it AI went and took off these external slabs, I got 13,600 m squared. AI is saying the overall area was roughly 13,250 m squared. So, it's actually done it incredibly [snorts] accurately when it has gone and done this. A fair way to test this, to see if whether we've actually improved the accuracy of the AI model, is we can say, "What is the area of the warehouse slab. And this is just querying it in Claude, sending it the same prompt and seeing how accurately it can do it. Depends how long this actually takes to run. My guess is this will take 5 to 10 minutes to run and use a lot more tokens when doing so. But while that is running, I will just quickly go over the specific structure of this drawing analysis workflow and how you can better build something like this. Okay, so the first step in this process is getting AI to actually see split out all the PDF drawings, which if you just simply open Claude Code and say I want to create a workflow that splits all the PDF drawings, it'll break the merged PDF file into individual PDFs. It also creates an image representation of the drawing at the maximum rendering that Opus 4.7, Claude's most recent visual model can process. So this is the most detail within which from the drawings that AI can actually read this. Then to as the quick representation of the drawings, it actually extracts all of the relevant text data from the drawing and puts this into a text file. Second thing it does is it goes and builds this sheet classification index. So it goes through every single drawing once it pre-processes them and splits them, it goes through every single drawing and determines what is on the drawing, what is the information shown and classifies the different type of drawings. Now for example, if you mainly focus on or use electrical drawings, you could tailor this to the type of drawings that you do. For example, if you know on single line diagrams that there's specific bits of information you want to extract like control and protection details or the overall voltage levels, then obviously you could use you could build this into your workflow. Then one thing I actually added to this after I ran this after I set up the files for this video is I actually added a symbol library step where it actually goes through and extracts the symbols from all of the drawings and creates a legend that it can reference as a text file as well. So, I haven't included that in these steps, but that is now currently in that drawing analysis process where it goes through and extracts all of the legends so it can quickly understand the drawings. Then, the next thing it builds is this detailed cross-references library which details exactly what is on each drawing and which other drawings that that specific drawing refers to. So, it understands the cross-references and how all the drawing set fits together. Again, short concise text document that just tells the model exactly what it needs to know. Sort of angry at myself for not running this before the video. It has literally been going for 10 minutes going through the drawings. I will comment below with the area it gets and whether it gets close to the 13,250 m² that Claude Code produced or see how accurate Claude Co-work got. But, this process I can guarantee it will increase the accuracy, it will reduce the number of tokens you use, and it will basically whether you're trying to do it for takeoffs or whether you're trying to do it for other purposes, it will increase the accuracy within which you can get AI to process construction drawings.