Cat GBT6 Astra can do things that no other model has ever come close to doing. I went from an idea to an entire blueprint for an office space with all of these stunning visuals. I had Astra generate all the three-dimensional objects inside of Blender. Use Higsfield to generate this stunning cinematic walkthrough, and I'm genuinely blown away at what this can do. In this video, I'm going to show you how to generate 3D objects inside of Blender just like this in order to create stunning visuals. So, without further ado, let's dive right in. All right. So, for this use case, I'm going to take this image of this object right here, and I'm going to turn it into a 3D structure with Lego blocks. And you're probably thinking, Brock, that's not anything crazy. We could have done this with previous models. Why are we using Astra 6 in order to do this? I'm going to explain that right now. So, one big thing with these models when it comes to generating images and videos is it doesn't really have a 3D understanding of these objects. Well, you can now use something called Blender, which is a 3D animation tool that animators have been using for years. But the problem with this, it's very technical. You have to be a designer in order to use this. But now that GPT6 Astra is much more capable when it comes to computer use and its intelligence levels, it can now use this software in order to generate this entire object. And not only is it generating this object in whole, but if I click on this, you can see it's generating each of these individual Lego blocks. And this can be really powerful when we combine this with video models like we're going to be doing with Higsfield. Now, let me quickly break down how simple this prompt is. And then I'm going to send this off and it's going to begin generating this entire process for us. So, first of all, I said take my uploaded image and use Astra to coordinate this workflow. First, generate this in Blender. I wanted to create each individual Lego block pieces. Next, we're going to recreate it as a detailed logo structure with Higsfield. Then, create a PDF showing the brick types, the colors, quantities, and the amount of bricks that we actually use. And the way that we are able to understand how many individual pieces make up this model is by using Blender. You will have all this info from the render that you create inside of Blender. Finally, generate an exploded view video where the structure separates into individual blocks. Keep the design consistency across all outputs. And then I also specifies to use chatbt image 2.5 which is a new model from OpenAI that just dropped today and it's the best image model on the market. Now the first thing that we need to do is make sure we are connected to Higsfield. So, let me show how to do that right now. First, we're going to come over to plugins on the lefth hand side. This is basically a connector if you're new to using chatbt as opposed to claude. And inside of plugins, we're simply just going to search for Higsfield. Next, we're going to come to this link right here, the Higsfield MCP. There will be a link in the description to click on this. And we want to select chatbt, obviously, since we are using codeex. Next, we're going to click add the Higsfield plugin. It's going to bring us directly here. And all we need to do is simply install this plugin and connect our account. And just like that, we have the Higsfield connector installed. So, we don't even need to go into the Higsfield platform in order to generate these image and video models. And if you don't know what Higfield is, it's basically an all-in-one AI creative platform that allows you to access all the top image and video models inside of this one platform. But when we use this inside of the Codeex or CatchBT app, we don't even need to go into Higsfield. We just have the intelligence of chatbt Astra connecting to Higsfield in order to basically generate these assets for us. Now that we have it connected, let's just send off this prompt here. Now, one thing I want to point out while this is working, GPT6 Astra is very, very good at complex workflows. So, this isn't going to be something that is quick to generate. This will probably take 10 to maybe 15 minutes in order to create this entire workflow end to end cuz first it has to generate this in Blender, which is not an easy task at all. This is kind of the first time we've cracked the ability to generate animations with a model. On top of that, it has to recreate all of the logo structure with Higsfield, generate a specific PDF with all of the different building blocks for this specific model. And then finally, it needs to generate the exploded view video with all the Lego blocks coming apart. So, this is a pretty complex workflow and this is probably going to take a bit of time. So, I'm just going to let it go and do its thing. All right. So, here is the final output. Obviously, on the right hand side, we have the image that we started with of this structure. Then on the left, we now have this 3D rendering inside of Blender. And the part of this that is really interesting is I could go and select each of these individual Lego blocks one by one. And you can see this is a full 3D interactive model that we could mess around with right here. And then we got this video output on the right hand side from Higsfield. Each of these individual Lego blocks are coming apart. This is exactly what we wanted. And we're able to combine the power of Chachche T6 Astra and Blender along with Hicksfield in order to get an output like this. And on top of that, from the same prompt that we gave Chachu T6 Astra, we now have this PDF breaking down each individual piece of this object here. It shows exactly how many individual pieces there are. Shows how many material colors, catalog entries. It even breaks down how many of each of these different colored Lego blocks we have inside of this 3D rendering inside of Blender. but also inside of that Higsfield video that we generated. It even breaks down the exact shape of each of these Lego blocks. This is really cool and this is something that we wouldn't have been able to do previously before Chateabt 6 Astra. Chache 6 Astra is obviously extremely powerful, but it's even more powerful when we connect it to the different apps that we use every single day inside of ChatCT, just like what we did with Higsfield in this video. Now, if you come to the plugins, you can see there's a bunch of different apps that you could connect to directly inside of the Chatubt app or the browser. But let's say you scroll through all these and you still can't find an app that you want to connect. Well, I'm going to show you a hack that will solve that problem for you. You can use a tool called the Zap Your MCP that basically is a bridge between you and 9,000 plus different applications that you could plug directly into either chatbt, Codeex, or even Claude and Claude Code. I personally use this every single day inside of all of my different AI platforms, whether that's Grockbot, Chatbt or Claude, and it's very simple to use. So, let me explain exactly how to do that right now. First of all, there is a link in the description if you want to try it out. And setting up this connection is very simple. So, all we have to do is click add MCP server and we're just going to configure whatever AI agent we're going to be using. So, in this case, we're obviously going to use chatbt. Next, we're just going to follow these instructions. So, first of all, we need to turn on developer mode. So, I'm just going to click on this. It's going to bring me here and all I need to do is toggle on developer mode so we could create this plugin. Next, we're going to copy this URL right here. Click on the button that says create your plugin and all I'm going to do is give this a name. I'm going to call it Zap your MCP. Then just paste in our Zap Your MCP URL right here. I'm going to click I understand and then I'm just going to click create. Now that we connected the two platforms, we just simply need to configure this specific MCP server inside of ChatVT. I'm just going to paste this in and it's going to set up the Zapier MCP for me. Now, once we've set up this connection, we just need to add whatever app that we want to use. So, for example, I use Drip every single day for my email marketing software and I have this connected so I could pull all relevant information from my Drip account to check my subscribers and all that different stuff. And in order to add an app, it's very simple. Just click add app. Search up whatever app that you want to connect. And it's as simple as just clicking a couple buttons and you'll be good to go. All right. All right. So, next I want to show a really complex workflow that I had Chacha BT Astra Blender and Higsfield put together. And this entire process took about an hour of Chacha BT going and performing this task for me. So, first of all, let's talk about the input that I gave it first. First, I had Higsfield generate just a couple of images of this studio. Here is the output along with a couple of other images. Obviously, you could see this is very detailed, very in-depth. And the reason that I was wanting to do this is I want to take this idea that I have in my mind for like a full-on creator studio office and turn it into not only a 3D world that we can manipulate, but also turn this into video assets in order to visualize what this is really going to look like if we were to build this. Here's another example of this reference image that we fed to chatbt Astra just to get a sense of the aesthetic that we're going for with this office. Now, the next part of this workflow is I had chatbt Astra use Blender in order to come up with a 3D model of what this could actually look like. This right here is just a screenshot. So, let me go into Blender and show you exactly what I mean. Now, if you don't know what Blender is, it's basically a 3D animation software that Now, if you don't know what Blender is, it's basically a 3D animation software that you used to have to be a designer to use. But now, with the intelligence of Chachubt Astra, we could start generating not only individual 3D objects, but also entire worlds like you could see right here. We can use this for blueprints for real estate projects or just a fun example of how I would want my office to look, for example. So, I could literally go and click on all these different objects because these are individual items. For example, I could click on this little couch cushion here. I could click on this chair. I could click on the camera, this lighting setup. All these things are individual objects as opposed to just like a video, if this makes sense. Now, this is where it gets pretty wild. We had Chachab Astra use that Blender file in order to turn it into this interactive diagram that acts as an HTML page that we can actually play around with. So, I could click on this. It's going to show each individual section of this. I could click on podcast corner and it's going to zoom me over here. I could click on the filming floor and I could actually look around and even walk throughout this world. And to show you a before and after, I'm going to click on view concept. And this is the original image that we had Higsfield generate in order to give us this entire prototype that was generated with Blender and turned into this cool interactive app with GPT Astra. Next up, what I did is I provided a reference YouTube video and I'm going to show you this very quickly right now. So right here is a walkthrough of a property and I really like the way that this looks. So what I wanted to do is I wanted to have Chacha BT Astra and Higsfield regenerate a real estate property listing video similar to this. If you take a look here, there's some pretty cool transitions and I wanted to mimic this in a video that we're going to have Higsfield generate. And the cool part about this is we're using ChateBT Astro, which is really good at computer use. So it's able to go and actually watch this video and pick up the exact style that we're trying to emulate. And then finally, here is the output that we got. Higal went and generated this entire 30- secondond video for us using Cance 2.5. We never even had to leave the chatbt interface. Has these really cool transitions where it's kind of zooming to the next section of this office. It's pretty crazy that I gave it just a couple of prompts. It went and created this entire interactive diagram for me and then turned it into this video. So guys, there you have it. That is the new Chache T6 Astra mixed with Blender and Higsfield in order to create some stunning animations that we couldn't do previously. There are so many different use cases for this that I'm personally going to be exploring and I'm going to share more on this channel.