So, as a lot of you might have heard, ChatGpt's newest version, GPT6 Astra, came out last week, and it's one of the most interesting and also concerning models when it comes to 3D modeling. Let's go ahead and just jump into it. Okay, so you might have seen the release, and you can find more information on this page about GPT6, but one thing that really caught my eye is scrolling down into the things that this tool is a lot better at. It's significantly better at drawing 3D objects using CAD code. Basically, that means that it can draw things and work in 3D tools by executing code. And looking at a couple of the examples that it had down below, I could tell that it was going to be a different kind of AI model. And so they had examples where GPT6 Astro modeled a house in Blender and then it sent the model to Unreal Engine and created a visualization inside of Unreal Engine. That's something we may look at doing in the future, by the way. And it also created some really amazing stills and interiors and things like that. Um, and so based on that, I really wanted to test this and see if the hype around it was real. And so what I wanted to do was put it through a couple different tests to see what its capabilities were. So first off, the first test that I gave it is I wanted to give it two images of the front and back side of a house and see if it could create that model inside of SketchUp. One thing to notice, this is modeling through an actual MCP server in SketchUp. And I'm actually going to be rolling off another channel talking specifically about AI because there's so much going on. So, if you want to learn more about how to do that specifically, um I will link to that channel on this page. Um the new channel is going to be called the AI Essentials, and I'm going to talk a lot more about building things using AI, not just using SketchUp, but also [snorts] building other tools and other interesting things using AI because there's so many different things you can build with it, and a lot of them don't necessarily fit with this channel. So, if you want to get more of that content, you can go over to the AI essentials and subscribe, and I'd love to see you over there. Okay? And so notice that I'm actually inside of codeex inside of the GPT desktop app, right? So I'm not using the web version. I'm using the codeex codeex app. And I also have the SketchUp MCP server set up and running. Right? So if I go into my extensions, developer, Ruby console. Right here, you can see how my MCP server is connected. Note that I will link to a video showing you how to set that up. But this is basically just the tool set that this can use in order to model and execute commands directly in SketchUp. And so now what I'm going to do is I'm going to give I'm going to give it two images. So I've got the front side of a house model and then I've got the back side of that same model, right? And so these are images that I've generated with [snorts] AI. Um, and so what I'm going to do is I'm going to tell it I'm going to say I'm going to say I've attached two images of a house, the front and back side. I want you to create a 3D model in SketchUp using the MCP connection. I'm going to say a 3D model of this house in SketchUp using the MCP connection that matches these two images. Please follow the images as closely as you can. And then I usually like to leave a question thing in there that just says, "Ask me any questions you have before getting started." And we'll go ahead and we'll hit enter. And so this is going to think for a second. Then it's going to ask me a couple questions. And so it's asked me questions like, do I have an overall measurement? And I'm going to say no. I'm going to say you can estimate from the images. Number two exterior only. We don't want to model the interior, though we could. And we'll look at another example where we tried to do that a little bit later on. We're going to say yes, include the surroundings. And then four, um, because I have SketchUp open, create a new one. right here. And we'll go ahead and we'll hit enter. And so it's going to ask for permission on if it can run a Ruby script. And I'm going to say yes. And in this case, I'm going to say allow for this conversation because the whole point of this is for this to run Ruby scripts. So it's completely acceptable for it to do that. Um I don't like to give like blanket permission for things like that just cuz I'm still a little bit paranoid about this kind of going outside of the guard rails, but for this conversation, it makes sense. Um, and it looks like my MCP server isn't connected. So, we're just going to disconnect and reconnect right here. And we'll just say it's running now. And that's [clears throat] pretty common that it'll drop the connection. And then you need to rerun this. So, we're going to go ahead and we're going to let this run. It's going to think for a while and then it's going to generate this inside of SketchUp. Okay. And so, it's gone through and it's um basically generated that. And you can see how if you followed the steps, it's actually gone through and it's done a whole bunch of like checking of what's being created and things like that. Um, so you can kind of see that in the steps that are in here. You can see how it's looking at the different images to figure out kind of how this looks versus the image. But if I hop over into SketchUp and take a look at it. Um, first off, I think it's interesting that ChatGpt, for whatever reason, really likes this style inside of SketchUp, um, that doesn't have any of the actual edges on it right here. So, I usually more prefer to turn those edges on in here. But, um, I think it's interesting to kind of look at it that way, too. But, you can see how it's gone through and it's modeled this entire house like this. Um, it's got kind of an overall sight view right here. It's got a great front elevation. Um, and then kind of a back elevation, but it's added the trees. I mean, it's done a really good job in here. And I will tell you, even since yesterday, like this model has learned um things about like how to put the roofs together and things like that. Now, if we look at this, this isn't like perfect modeling by any means, but it's significantly better, right? There's things that are still missing in here, but I mean yesterday it had multiple different versions of this when I tested this the first time um kind of heading out to the side right here. Um that [snorts] kind of like went into space. So you can kind of see that over here. So it's definitely not perfect, but I think it did a really good job of generating something that I could use for visualizations and other things like that. So um there's there's other details in here. And by the way, you could go back and tell it to change things. I mean, I've done that. Um, I don't want to do that right here, but you can tell it to go back through and adjust if, for example, your roof right here doesn't run into the other roof the way that you want it to. But, I mean, overall, I'm very impressed by what this was able to create basically with one prompt. And then, if we were to take a section um into the building itself just to kind of see what the interior looks like. So, there's not a whole lot in there, right? I mean, it does exactly what we told it to, which is just kind of creates a um an exterior view right here. So, it's just kind of an empty space on the inside. Now, we could probably tell it to add something on the inside, but just to give you kind of an idea of what's going on in here. And so, one thing we should take a look at is how closely it followed along with the images. Now, you you have to be a little bit flexible with this only because we gave it images that don't necessarily align. Um, but if you take a look at this, I would say it kind of followed along with this. So, the quality of the model is definitely better um than what we've seen before. But if you look at this for example and you look at like this wall right here, this is a lot shorter than the wall that's actually in the image right here. Um same thing with this wood. This wood should run all the way over like this. And it definitely doesn't do that. Um so there are definitely things that don't align. Now, I have to give it a little bit of a I've got to give it a little bit of a pass on the windows on this side of the wall because if you look at the backside, the backside showed images over here. So, if you're giving it an AI image, then there's going to be a little bit of a question mark to begin with. I mean, but I mean, did it capture the overall general feel of this? Definitely yes. Um, is it exactly matching what's in this image? Definitely no. Um, and then if we look at the backside, it's kind of the same thing, right? So, this is shorter than it should be by like a full bay right here. Um, so it's got an extra window in here. So, it's not following this exa exactly yet. Now, I could probably go through and there's some things I would try to get it to follow along more closely. Um, but I would say again, this is more of a concept tool and a visualization tool, but when it actually comes to creating things inside of a model, this does a much better job than the previous versions. Though I will say there's obviously room for improvement in how closely it follows the prompt. And so what I want to do now is I want to take this and I want to test it with more of a precise thing. And so specifically what I want to do with this is I want to use it to model a floor plan and see how closely it can follow follow a floor plan with dimensions. Okay. So next up we're going to give it the floor plan that I created when I did the fable test and see how well it can follow this. Now, this is obviously very confusing and it's kind of supposed to be, right? It's supposed to have a ton of different dimensions on here. Um, so this is supposed to be a test of how well it can follow a floor plan like this with just a lot of raw information and no real visuals in here. Um, actually showing what any of that information means. Right? So, what we're going to do is we're going to upload this and we're going to say I want you to create I want you and by the way um you could definitely put this on extra high or max over here. Um I really don't want to burn through all of my weekly chat GBT usage in um one request. So, I'm not going to do that. We're going to put this on high and see how it does. So, I'm going to say I want you to use the SketchUp MCP server to create this floor plan in 3D. Following the dimensions on the plan is the most important thing as we are testing for accuracy. And then we'll say I want the model to include doors in the door openings, windows in the window openings, and a garage door in the garage door opening. Ask me any questions you have before getting started. Okay. And so these are all good questions, right? So yes, 8 foot walls are fine. Fine. This is fine. Okay. It's going to ask what the opening heights are. Um so these should be okay. Uh number four, it found a dimension discrepancy in here. And so that's cool that it went through and it found a discrepancy in the dimensions. Um I'm going to say overall should take priority. You can infer though. Typically, if I was doing this for real, I would say, why don't you point those locations out to me and we can talk about what the dimensions are. Um, and then we're going to say open top is preferable. I do appreciate that it's going through and it's checking the dimension strings to make sure they add up properly. That's a nice double check to have. Okay, so overall this worked for 17 minutes and 9 seconds and created a SketchUp model right here. Now, one thing that's cool is it also gave us an accuracy report. So, um it basically went through and it said the areas where things match exactly versus what it did when there was a conflict. So, that's definitely useful information to have as we go through and look at this. So, there are going to be some things that are off a little bit. Um and that more had to do with like overall dimensions being a little bit different in here. And so honestly, part of the reason that this was an issue is because the walls were actually drawn to four and a half inches while we allowed it to do it at five. Okay. And so this is what it gave me. And um I I mean I feel like it did a pretty decent job based on the instructions that I gave it, right? It added doors in the door openings. It added closet doors. It added windows. Um I didn't give it any specific instructions about the windows, right? It modeled the garage right here. It also gave me a dimension floor plan view which I can use to check the dimensions and a front and garage view which doesn't really seem to be that different than um the first view right here. But what I'm specifically interested in right now is I'm interested in checking some of these dimensions. Okay. And so just comparing these side by side um one thing to note is there is actual like geometry in here above the doors. It's just in the door view. It didn't put swings on here. Um so that's definitely something worth noting. And so I'm just checking this high level. These dimensions check out. Now there are some things that I want to double check in here. Like for example, you know, what is the dimension from here to here? So this is 1T one. That one's 1 ft one. And it noted there was a little bit of a gap on one of these walls. So I think it might have been over here. Um let's see. So this one overall. Um and let's see. Is this 5'4? It should be right here. It is 5'4. So, I mean, generally speaking, it seems to have done a pretty good job of following the dimensions on this page. Um, so I'm not seeing any massive gaps or massive issues in here. And it did report to me the ones that it didn't have. So, it feels like an accuracy exercise like this one where we're creating kind of a simple floor plan, it seems to do a pretty good job. Um, so I mean, looking at this, this should be 6'4. This is 6'4. So overall, it does appear to be following my dimensions on this um simple but also complicated floor plan. And we could check some of the other things too, like closet to closet should be 3T7. I mean, these all appear to be matching to me. So, um overall, I mean, I'm fairly impressed with the job that it did with these overall dimensions in this space, as well as adding the doors and frames in here. So for simple floor plans to 3D, one thing I probably want to do is I want to actually try to teach it to do a better job of instead of drawing these walls as individual walls like this, having like them all as just a part of an overall, though I guess it's probably not that big of a deal. But if you look at this, notice how each one of these is drawn as an individual element. That's probably fine, but at some point I would probably want the internal walls kind of merged together just so I don't have a bunch of like additional edges in here that are going to show up on my floor plan. So, [snorts] um, definitely something to think about, but overall, I mean, I would say, I mean, I would consider this to be a pass of this particular test. Um, so, let me check one more dimension in here. So, the overall garage door opening should be um, from the outside of the frame, it should be 12 ft. And it is. Um, so for this particular exercise, this seems to have done a really good job of following the instructions. Okay. So, for the last test, I wanted to give it something with a little bit more detail. And so what I did is I went to freefarmhouse.com. Now if you haven't been to freefarmouse.com, this is a collection of open-source farmhouse plans that Jay Osborne has made available. So you can download all of these completely for free. Um though, if you do use them, I mean, I would highly recommend that you go ahead and you donate something to him cuz he's done a lot of work here. But this is super cool because he's got um a whole bunch of different farmhouse um models in here that you can download. So we're going to click on designs. I went through the designs and I end up picking uh I picked the I picked the Caroline farmhouse. So, it's kind of a simple building. Um but you can download these from the files page and actually look at them. And so you can see this is like a full 19page set with detail on what a building like this should look like. Right? So it's got exteriors, it's got interiors, um it's got dimensions on it. Um it's got um details on what the various rooms look like. So I mean it's a decent set of plans, right? It's got some construction details in here. Though for this I told it to not worry too much about the construction details itself um as much as just model the house itself. And so what I wanted to do was I wanted to test giving it a full set like this and asking it to go through and actually generate it. Okay. Okay. And so the way this conversation work worked is I said okay I think I want to create a design in 3D from a set of plans. I told it to wait for the plans and then I uploaded the plans and said this is a set of open source plans. You do not need to get to the level of following the construction details page but I'd like for you to use this set of plans to recreate this house in 3D using the MCP. Um I said oh if you have any questions ask them before you start modeling. And so it asked similar questions which is exterior plus interior walls, doors, stairs and fixtures or exterior only, right? And so I said um I want exterior and interior because we have that information in the set. And then I also said um I want you to I guess [clears throat] I wasn't super clear, but what I meant was I want you to go ahead and include the materials for this model as well. And so once I said yes, it went through and it built this model. So you can see how it worked for 21 minutes and 50 seconds and it created a full set of drawings. Now one thing that's interesting is it creates a page that it can use to kind of compare what's drawn inside of the model right here. Um so you can see how it did a check back against the original model right here. Now one thing I haven't checked yet and we can do that together is I haven't checked how closely it followed the dimensions. But you can see how from just like a general design standpoint, it followed this design very closely. Um, and did a really really good job of creating this house. Um, so at least for like simple visualizations and early models, I think I'm going to be using this a lot because it did a really great job. Okay. And so if we look at the model itself, you can see that it came in here and it modeled like the actual siding in here. Now, note that there are some overlaps. And I think this is something I could fix um by giving us some additional instructions in the way that it models. But you can see how it modeled um all of the um all of the supports that are out here. It modeled the roof. And while it did leave out a couple battens in here, like overall it did a really good job of creating an actual 3D roof. Um and so you can see how it set up a number of different uh versions or views in this where you can see different parts of the building. Now, there are some things I would want to swap out like the furniture. There are some things that I'd like to teach it um in order to have it do a better job, but like just overall like I'm blown away by the level of detail that went into this. I mean, this is it put a lot into this and it modeled the whole thing in like 20 minutes. And so, if I just needed a farmhouse to be in like the background of a model or something like that, I could use this all day long. This is better than a lot of the models that I end up using anyway. Now, where we're going to where we're going to do something interesting is we're going to go through and we're going to test out and and uh check the actual dimensions in here. Okay. And so what I haven't tested and I'm really excited to test is I've got a sidebyside view of what's created in here. I will say things like the kitchen counter for example aren't fully following along with this. But let's take a look at some of the more highle things like just the dimension um inside of this space right here. So, this is actually 6 feet. Um, if I go from this end right here to this end right here, this is 10t and an eighth of an inch. And that's probably because I wasn't actually able to dimension from this point right here. So, we really want to go from here to here. And you got to kind of find the point where this actually is. But, if I look at this, that's actually 10 ft in here. Um, and then you know if I look at some of these other things. So if I look at the front deck, [clears throat] I'm just looking for things that are like easy to dimension off of. And so if we go from one end here, and I want to make sure I actually pick up a point that's on the edge here. Um, and that's the trick on this, right? Is like finding the good thing to actually dimension from because really we want this point right here. Um, so you need to make sure you're picking the right point, but overall it's 35'4 in. And so from an exterior standpoint, it did really good. Now, looking at the interior, there's some things that I noticed, right? So, it came in here and it didn't get um this closet 100% right. Right. Like the door should be over here. So, it didn't quite figure the closet out. So, we're still not at the point where this is just like set it and forget it. Um but this is a lot closer than things that I've seen in the past. Um and it did it all in one shot. So, if we look at the upper floor plan, I'll bet we'll see the same thing. So, if we look at this, we've got kind of a linen closet right here. And yeah, it got the direction of the door wrong in here. So, it seems like it did a better job on the exterior than on the interior. For the things that it did get right, if we check the dimension in here, I'll just draw a line across that. That's probably going to be an easier way to check this. But if I draw a line across here, this is 7'4 in um versus it should be 7'8 in. So, um I think what we're finding is it got the exterior is really good. Um the interiors, it lost some stuff in here, right? It gets close, but it's not quite there yet. Now, I will say though, this is definitely something where this just came out and this model is only going to improve, but just the level of detail that it put into this is something that is significantly higher than what I've seen in the past. And yeah, if you look at this right here, this should be 6'6 and it's 6' 10 in. So, the further it got into the interior, the more it kind of drifted. So, that's something I'm going to have to think about like how I would use this. um because I mean obviously we do want this to follow all of the dimensions and it definitely didn't do that. But I mean just looking at what it was able to create in here, I still think that it's a pretty remarkable tool. Um but there are a few improvements that still need to be made. Okay. So my thoughts on this overall like first thing I will say this is the first model that I have used where I have looked at it and thought there's a possibility that AI could start replacing people for accurate 3D modeling. Now that being said is it there yet? In my opinion no. I mean, the results that this created were visually very impressive. And I think with some training and some skills and things like that, they could get even better. Same thing with the accuracy. Um, especially on the third model, I think by improving the prompt and maybe using some sub aents or something like that to double check all the dimensions, I think this could get a lot closer. But if you look at adherence to the actual requirement, I would say two out of the three of these it actually failed um only in the sense that it didn't quite model based on what was in the image um on the first one. And then on the third one it did a really good job on the exterior but not necessarily on the interior. So um from that standpoint, I mean is it at the point where it's going to replace people for creating accurate 3D models? I don't think it is yet, but I think it's very close. And honestly, like full disclosure, this is the first model that I've seen that really kind of made me uncomfortable um from the standpoint of what does this mean for 3D modeling software in general? Because I used this on Blender, too. Um and it did a really good job creating more organic shapes. Um and so I mean, my question is where do we go from here? Because these models are only going to get better with time. And so I don't know what that's going to look like. Um I will tell you that the uh token usage is extremely high. I mean I went through my entire week's worth of chat GPT um tokens in a day testing this and then once I reset I went through another 40% just testing this um on my end. So it's something that is going to be very token inensive moving forward. Now, I do suspect that's going to get better, and I am only on the plus plan, so I'll probably be upgrading to the PL Pro plan just so I can test it some more. But I'd love to hear from you in the comments down below. First off, what do you think about this model? Have you tested it? And what do you think this means for 3D? Second, what kind of tests would you like to see this put through? Because I know this has been more overall building models, but I think there's really interesting things that could happen with furniture and other things like that. Um, and then finally, um, because this is moving so quickly, I don't want this to just be like a complete AI channel. And so what I'm going to try to do is when we see a big development like that, I'm going to talk about it here on this channel, but then I'm going to get more indepth on things on my AI channel, which is going to be the AI essentials. So if you do want to stay up to date on that stuff, that's going to be more than just SketchUp and 3D. That's going to be using AI to build tools and also like looking at the capabilities and what we can do with it. So, a lot of really interesting stuff from that standpoint. So, I'll link to that on this page. As always, thank you so much for taking the time to watch this and I'll catch you in the next video. Thanks guys.