Welcome back! This is part 2 of a 3-part 
Floor Plan Series. In this video we'll   be adding windows, doors and furnishings 
to the house that we did in part 1. I'm   Dude Blender and let's jump right in.
Let's begin with the doors. We'll use   a free add-on called Archimesh. It comes with 
Blender, so go to Edit >> Preferences >> Add-ons   and search here for Archimesh. Click here if it's 
not enabled and close this. Make sure that you're   in Object Mode and press N to show the side panel 
if it's not visible, and you'll see this Create   tab. If we click on it, you'll see Archimesh 
here, that's where it lives. If we expand it,   you'll see all of the stuff that we can use. 
What I like to use here are the doors and the   rail windows which double as sliding doors.
Alright, let's add the doors first. I'm going   to hide the floor and the background. Now whenever 
you click on any of the buttons, that object will   appear on the 3D cursor, so make sure that it's 
actually sitting on the ground plane and that it's   not too far away from the house so that you won't 
be needing to zoom out and get the object to bring   it in. I'm going to shift + right click here 
to bring the 3D cursor closer to the house and   you'll see that it's floating and it's something 
that we don't want. So, we can go here to View,   if this is not expanded, just click on it, 
3D Cursor, and we have the information of the   cursor here. We can just change the Z to 0. That 
way we make sure that it's on the ground plane.   You could also just move the cursor to the 
origin by pressing Shift + S which gives you   this menu. And all of these four items move the 
cursor, so we can move the cursor to World Origin   and you'll see that X, Y and Z are all 0 now.
Alright, let's go back to Create >> Archimesh and   add our first door. Depending on your preference, 
you might want to do this in Wireframe mode,   so Z to bring up this menu and you can go here 
to Wireframe. Also note that in these menus it's   faster if you just press and hold the key, in 
this case Z. Now move the mouse and highlight   whatever option you want and then just release 
the Z button. That way you don't actually need   to click the mouse. It's a tiny thing but we do 
this hundreds of times so it adds up. And if you   don't remember the shortcut Z, you always have 
these buttons visible to change the shading mode.  Alright, let's click on Door. And now as 
mentioned, the door appears on the 3D cursor.   Also, a new panel appears here with the door 
properties. And note that the properties of   the door only appear if you have the frame of 
the door selected. If you select anything else,   it disappears. Here you can change the dimensions 
of the door, the rotation, the open side, right,   left or both, and the model of the door and 
the handle. You can also see in the Outliner   that it actually creates a door group with 
an Empty as the parent. If you expand it,   you'll see a CTRL_Baseboard which is useless 
for us, a CTRL_Hole which we'll use later on to   carve out the hole in the walls for the door 
to be, and the door frame, which itself has   the handles parented to it. You can actually 
select the door, I'm gonna go to Solid Mode,   and rotate the door with R to open it and this is 
useful to show in our floor plan the direction to   where the door opens. Another thing is that with 
the door selected, if we go to the item tab,   you'll see that the rotation X and Y are locked, 
so you can only rotate it in Z. So, you don't need   to worry that the door will rotate in a weird way. 
Okay, this door is gonna be our main entrance,   so I'm gonna go back here. I'll change the model 
to 5, open both sides and handle to 4. Remember   that at any point you can press N to hide or show 
this panel. Now to actually move the door, you   need to select its Empty. Now most of the other 
parts of the door are locked, so you cannot move   them. But for example, the handles, you could and 
you don't want that. So, to move the whole thing,   you always have to select the Empty.
Okay, let's go to top view, we go back   to wireframe, I have the Empty selected. Now I 
can grab it with G, just place it here. Now you   don't really need to be super precise on the 
location, I just use the handles as reference   and this is the wall. You can barely see the 
orange line and I just make sure that the   handles are outside of the walls a little bit for 
the door to be kind of on the center of the wall.  Okay, I'm gonna show you how we'll make the 
holes in the walls with this one and then for   the rest we'll just do them all at the same 
time. We're gonna use a Boolean modifier. So,   select the walls and go to the modifier stack. 
Click on Add Modifier and start typing “Boolean”,   Enter. We can collapse the Solidify because 
we don't need to change anything. And on our   Boolean modifier, we're going to change the 
Operand Type from Object to Collection. And   before we do anything else, we're going to save 
our work with ctrl + S. Boolean operations tend   to increase the chance of Blender crashing, so 
save often and make sure that your Autosave is   on in Edit >> Preferences >> Save & Load >> 
Autosave. Two minutes should be good enough.   And if or when Blender crashes, you'll be able 
to find temporary save files on your temp folder,   which you can access by pressing window + R and 
typing %temp%, Enter. Then you would just search   for the name of your file, in this case, “fptut”. 
And then you would open the most recent file. You   can also change the folder to where the Autosave 
files are stored in File Paths >> Temporary Files.  Now back to our modifier. The idea is that any 
objects that are in this collection that we will   create in a second, will be subtracted from the 
wall's geometry. Make sure that “Difference” is   selected here. Now select the CTRL_Hole of this 
door. And if I move it, you'll see that it's   a box shape, which is perfect to be used as a 
boolean cutter. The more complex the geometry   of the cutter, the higher the chance that we're 
going to crash Blender, so this is actually the   best geometry that we can use. Press M and we're 
gonna create a new collection, call it "cutters".   Now select the walls again and in the Boolean 
modifier, click on Collection and select Cutters.   And now there's a hole in the walls for the door.
We don't need to do this one by one, so let's just   add the rest of the doors. We need one, two more 
doors. Let's add a new one, select the Empty, move   it into place. Place it roughly on the center of 
the opening of the wall on the plan. Let's select   the frame. We'll change the width to let's say 
0.8. We'll just move it a little bit more. There.   The open side also looks good. Now let's duplicate 
this door by double clicking on the door group to   select everything that's within this hierarchy. 
That's a function that they added I think in 4.2,   it's relatively new, so if you don't have it, you 
would need to select everything in the outliner.   So, shift + D to duplicate it and we'll place 
it here. Just fine tune the placement. Now let's   place these three sliding doors. I'm going to 
use rail windows for this. So, let's go ahead   and place one. I'm going to change the height to 
2.1. Let's remove the sill and that looks good.  Now one more thing here. These are going to 
be the bathroom doors and we might not want   them to be transparent. So, I'm going to 
quickly go to the world properties here,   change Color to Sky Texture. Nishita is okay. Sun 
elevation I'm going to change to zero and I just   want to have a little bit of light. Now Z, let's 
go to rendered view. I just want to be able to see   how transparent is this material. No respectable 
person is going to have a bathroom door that is   this transparent. So, let's just select it and 
let's go ahead and go to the shading workspace.   We're going to go here to materials and we can 
confirm that we actually have the Glass_material   selected. This is the default material that 
the Archimesh add-on is placing on the windows.  Let's go to the Rendered shading 
here as well. We're just going to   delete all of this. Everything except the 
Principled BSDF and the Material Output.   So, with everything selected we press X. Most 
of the shortcuts work everywhere in Blender,   so X and it deletes everything and we're just 
going to connect this directly to the Material   Output. And now, we still want glass, we 
just don't want it to be so transparent,   so we can expand here on Transmission and 
increase the Weight to 1. And that's really   all we need. We just don't want to be able to 
recognize what's on the other side of the door.  All right. Let's go back to our layout workspace 
and Z >> Wireframe. Again, we select the Empty   and we move the door in place. Now again we 
select the frame of the window and rotate it by   90 degrees. I like to use this lip here to guide 
the placement of the door. Place it in the middle.   Let me select the frame again. Let's increase 
the Width to 1.4. That looks good. And again,   let's duplicate this thing because it has the 
exact same dimensions that this other door has,   so we just place it there. And we've got one more 
here, so duplicate either of these, shift + D and   let's place it here. Select the frame. We don't 
need the rotation, so a quick trick that you can   use in most places in Blender is that if you 
want to reset a field to the default value, we   could just hover over the field with the mouse and 
press Backspace. Let's grab it and place it here.   And this one seems to be a little wider, so 1.5. 
Let's do 1.6. Now all of the doors are in place.   I'm going to go to solid view. And now to make 
all of the holes at once, go to Select >> Select   Pattern. The asterisk is a wildcard. And 
now we want to select every object that   has the word “hole” in its name. So, we can just 
type *hole*, Enter, and everything is selected.  Now one thing that's important here, if before 
doing that you have already something else   selected and then you go Select >> Select pattern 
and do that, you'll add all of those objects to   the preview selection. So, make sure that before 
doing that you have nothing selected. You might   move objects that you didn't want to, to the 
cutters collection. And if you don't notice   that you did that, it might cause trouble later 
that you will have no idea why that happened. So,   what I do is select everything with A, then 
deselect everything with A A, and then I do   the Select Pattern. Now Enter. And the idea is 
that I only have all of the CTRL_holes selected.   Now we press M to Move to Collection, move all 
of them to cutters at the same time. Okay, you   still want to rotate and make sure that everything 
is looking good before moving to the next step.  Remember to save constantly with control + 
S. Okay, looks good, but we actually need   two more doors for the closets. So, to make it 
simple, I'm just going to duplicate this one,   shift + D and place it there. Duplicate it again. 
I place it here. I'm just going to rotate it right   here. Okay, select the frame. Rotate nothing and 
just place it there. We can actually change this   to 1.5. Let's just make sure that everything is 
in place. Okay, something that might happen and   I'm not really sure why it does or what I did 
wrong, but I duplicated this window group to   place it here, right? So, this door or window is 
this group. Now for some reason it is possible,   and it's happened to me a couple of times, that 
I'm going to expand this and this. You'll see   that this window group, the new one that I 
duplicated has its CTRL hole, but this one,   the one I duplicated doesn't and I'm really not 
sure where it went or why it disappeared. So,   what I do here is just select it by double 
clicking on it, deleting the whole thing   and then just duplicating a new one. And now 
you'll see that it has the CTRL hole. Now we   can just select the cutters manually. This one 
and shift + click on this one and move those   to the cutters collection. And that looks good.
Okay, windows is a similar thing, but we want to   create them at some height, not on the floor. 
So, open the side panel, go to View and change   the 3D cursor location Z to whatever height you 
want. I'm just going to type 1 m. That's where   the new windows will be placed. Now let's go back 
here to Archimesh and click on rail window. You   also have panel windows. I don't like them, so 
I always use rail windows. All right, Top view,   Wireframe, select this, select the Empty. Now 
sometimes because the floor plan is underneath,   it's difficult to select the empties. You need to 
be very precise on your click. So, this is a nice   trick that you can use. We can make any object 
unselectable and that way you won't be able   to select it in the 3D viewport, but you will be 
able to select it in the outliner. Now to do that,   we need to show that function. You go here to the 
filters and enable this, which is the Selectable.   Now you'll see it here. So whatever object we want 
to make unselectable, like our floor plan, we just   click on the icon. And now we cannot select the 
floor plan so, it will be easier to select the   empties. All right, we have it selected, G, let's 
move it here. Now the windows, I'm going to move   it here so that you can see it better. They also 
have this lip and that's what I use to align it   to the walls. This lip should go on the inside 
of the wall. So, let's select the frame again,   rotate 180. Then I'll just select the Empty and 
just move it into place. Select the frame. We're   going to change this to 1, I think. Looks good. 
Let's go ahead and duplicate that. Constrain the   movement to X. This looks like a 2 m window. 
Excellent. Duplicate that again. Shift + D.  Now note that the Archimesh tool does not allow 
us to input negative numbers here in the rotation,   so if we want to rotate it in a way that this 
side is on the inside, we just type 270. And   now this little lip is on the inside of the 
house. And the only reason why the windows   have an inside and an outside is that the inside 
has these handles and the outside doesn't. So,   we select that, move it here. Change the size to 
something like 0.6 maybe. Perfect. Duplicate, Y,   into place. There we go. Duplicate that. Y. And 
we just continue placing all of our windows. One   more in the bathroom. Okay, there we go.
One final note that is kind of important.   Whenever you place objects on your scene, they 
are placed in the active collection. If you   look at the outliner, you'll see that there's a 
Scene collection, and inside it, there is this   collection that is just called Collection. And 
then we have the collection of the cutters that   we created. Now if you by accident or for some 
reason selected the Scene collection, and then   we place a new window, you probably won't notice 
because you're working here, moving it into place   and all that stuff. And you probably won't notice 
that it's actually outside of this collection   where we have everything else. Now this is not a 
huge deal. And you can say, well, I'm just gonna   drag it and drop it to the correct collection. 
Then you'll see that this happens because the   children are not moved by default with the parent. 
So, then you say, okay, I'm gonna select these two   and then move them to the right collection. But 
then this happens again because you have to move   the children again. And then that happens. So, 
whenever you move it, just make sure that you have   everything selected. You can just double click it 
on the outliner in blender 4.2 or 3, I think. And   then drag and drop it to the right collection.
The biggest problem would be if you select the   Cutters collection and then add stuff here because 
everything that's inside here, remember, is being   used by the Boolean modifier of the walls. So 
keep that in mind because in some circumstances,   it can cause a little bit of trouble.
Let's delete that. So again, make sure   that you have nothing selected. Select Pattern 
and move those to Cutters. And now let's make   sure that all of our windows and doors are working 
properly. Okay, I think it looks good. Ctrl + S,   remember to always save. Now if at this 
point there's something that's not working,   there are a few things that might have happened, 
but the two most common are: some cutter got lost,   so make sure that every door and every window 
has a cutter. If that is the case, then the next   thing that you might want to check is expand the 
cutters collection and make sure that everything   inside this collection is a CTRL_Hole. If there's 
anything else in this collection, move it out.  Now let's furnish the house, which is actually 
quite fun. So, we need to get the furniture   models, which you have a few ways to get. Of 
course, you can model them yourself, which   I definitely don't recommend. It will take you a 
while. The second one is getting individual assets   from Blender Kit, Fab, Turbosquid, Blendswap, CG 
Trader or any other marketplace or Poliigon, which   sells proprietary assets that are extremely high 
quality, which you would expect from a company   owned by Andrew Price, the Blender Guru. In all of 
these sites, there are free and paid assets. Well,   except Blendswap because everything is free. 
And if you have the cash, you'll find literally   anything that you need. And if you don't have 
the cash, you'll still mostly find what you need,   although you might not get the commercial license 
so you cannot make money with them. Also, some   of these libraries have add-ons that allow you to 
open the library and download directly in Blender,   which is a huge time saver. I use both Blender Kit 
and Poliigon add-ons. Now keep one thing in mind.   Most of these options are usually heavy assets, 
high poly-count and high resolution textures,   which might slow down your computer and increase 
the render times substantially. You also need to   be connected to the internet and wait for them 
to download. That is a problem. So, to fix it,   I actually made a starter kit with 50 assets – 
and I add new stuff every year – that you can get   on my gum road. Now the idea with these is that 
everything is modeled with very few polygons to   keep the working files super responsive. And all 
of the materials are procedural, so no external   heavy texture files. It all works out of the box. 
And they also reuse the same materials in a way   that they look good with each other, so you don't 
need to spend time finding models that have styles   that work together. These all look good with 
each other. It's also a very light 9MB download,   so you can use them offline and as long as 
you don't resell the assets or give them away,   which would not be cool, you can pretty much do 
whatever you want, even commercial projects with   them, so you don't need to worry about license. 
It's 15 bucks, so you're getting each asset for   30 cents and lifetime access to download any 
new models that I might add to the bundle in   the future. The link is in the description.
So that's what I'm going to be using to   furnish the plan, but I'll also show 
you the Blender Kit add-on. Alright,   so if you do download my starter kit, first of 
all, thank you, you just need to save the Blender   file that you will download in your hard drive. 
Then you go to Edit >> Preferences >> File Paths   and Asset Libraries. I have it here, so I'm just 
going to show you how you would do it. You click   on the Add Asset Library button and then you 
just select the folder where the file is. So,   mine is here in StarterKit, Add Asset Library. 
By default, it takes the name of the folder,   but you can just rename it to whatever you want. 
Then we'll leave it as StarterKit. So, there's a   path and you can change the default Import Method. 
If you're starting or if you're like me and forget   to change settings when you need to, you should 
leave this in Append and we'll see why in a little   bit. You can close this and I'm going to change 
the Timeline to an Asset Browser. Now let's make   this bigger. Here you can select which library of 
the ones you have created you're going to use. So,   I'm going to click here and select StarterKit, 
the one I just created a while ago. And you'll   find all of the assets right here. So that's 
all the setup that you need. The icon on the   bottom left corner of the thumbnail indicates 
if it's a model or a material. To use them,   you just drag and drop them into your scene.
And remember what I mentioned before,   whenever you drag it, it's going to go into the 
active collection, so let's see where it is. So,   in this case, it added it to the Cutters 
collection. So that's actually the worst-case   scenario. Let me just drag it out and place it in 
the right collection. Now to keep everything tidy,   we could actually add a new collection and call 
it Furniture. And then we can just make this   collection the active one. And now whatever 
objects we put into the scene, will go to the   furniture collection. Now if we zoom into the 
toilet, you'll see that it's floating. That's   because we left the 3D cursor here. So, we just 
go ahead and shift + S >> Cursor to World Origin.   And for the toilet, I'm just going to open the 
side panel >> Item >> Location and Z to 0. All   right. Now I'm going to turn on the Statistics 
Overlay so that we can see the amount of geometry   that this has. And we can see that this toilet 
has less than 500 faces. And the reason for that   is that it uses a Subdivision Modifier. So, in 
the viewport, you don't have the subdivisions.   You'll only have them in the render, so the idea 
is that the file that you work with uses as little   geometry as possible so that you can work faster. 
And once you render, it will look good. So, the   modifier on this model is turned off by default. 
Let's turn it on here. I'm going to increase   this to 3 so that you can see how it will look 
in the render. So, in the render, it looks good,   but now we can see that the number of faces 
is very high. That’s why we turn it off in   the viewport because we don't need this level 
of detail. Now let me enable Blender Kit. Let's   go to Preferences >> Add-ons, BlenderKit Online 
Asset Library. Okay, we enable that and close it.  You'll see that we have it here. In the 
same way we can search for, let's say,   toilet. And we've got a bunch of models. 
The ones that have a lock are for the paid   version. You need to subscribe to be able to 
use them. And the subscription, I think it's   like five bucks a month, it's not expensive. But 
you can filter here Free First. And now we got a   bunch of toilets. So let me just drag and drop 
any toilet. And you'll see that it downloads it   here. Close this. And if I select this toilet, 
you'll see that it has a huge number of faces.   And that's only this part of the toilet. 
The lid has a bunch more faces. And again,   it has an Empty, so you need to grab the 
Empty to be able to move the toilet. I   want to delete this. I don't need it for now.
So, let's do this to show you how fast it is   using this kit. So, let's begin with the bedroom. 
We can click on this search box and just type   “bed”. Got it here. Drag it. Drop it. And place 
it. Then let's add a couple of night stands.   That's it. Drag it here. And drag it here. Okay. 
And that looks good. And now you’ll see here,   this is actually another reason why I prefer 
mine. I deleted the toilet that I got from   Blender Kit. But I didn't delete the collection. 
So just make sure that when you delete something,   you delete everything. And I placed the bed and 
the nightstands inside that collection. So yeah,   make sure that you don't leave stuff behind. I 
can just delete the collection. And you should   note that deleting the collection doesn't delete 
the objects that are inside that collection.  Okay. So now we have the active collection, so 
let's continue. Now all the closets built in,   so we don't need to add one. Let's go to the 
bathroom or let's furnish the bathroom. Toilet.   We move that in here. Move it there. Let's add a 
tub. There you go. Rotate, 90. And note that the   models that are on the starter kit have real life 
dimensions. So, for example, toilet, you might   not want to scale it down because then that will 
not be realistic. But tubs have different sizes,   so this one you can no problem scale it up 
a little bit or down. And that's okay. Sink,   let's drag and drop that here. Rotate 180. And 
now another cool thing about using assets that   are low-poly. For example, in this case where 
we need to fill this space, we can edit these   models very easily. So, we tap into edit mode. I'm 
going to select the faucet with L, the actual sink   and this part. I'm going to hide it with H. Go to 
top view. X-ray mode. I want to select vertices,   so 1. I'm going to grab all of these. G, X. All of 
these, G, X. All those, G, Y. Like there. That, G,   Y, there. We unhide with Alt + H. And we select 
this. And we just place it, you know, wherever we   want. Maybe just there. Tab and there we have it.
So, the idea is you want to be as fast and   productive as possible when doing this. Let's add 
dryer. Bring it in. And washing machine. Let's   bring that in too. Okay. Rotate 90 minus. Place 
it here. Same thing. And there you go. All right,   fridge. If you search for refrigerator, you 
won't find it. I named it fridge. Okay. In.   Okay. Place it here. Stove, in. And sink. We 
have kitchen sink L for large and S for small.   This one is large. So that. And we rotate it. 
Yep. Looking good. And now we need these cabinets.  So, I mentioned before that you can use a 
different Import Method. Here you can change   it. You can leave it in Follow Preferences, 
and then it will just do what you told it to.   But you can override it here. Append or Append 
(Reuse Data). So, Link you, you pretty much never   want to use. You'll see that if I import it, it 
doesn't allow me to place it wherever I want. And   the idea is that it just gets the object from the 
position that it is on the original file. So that   really doesn't make any sense here. If you use 
Append, look at the faces. So, this number 1,380   are the faces of this object. And this bigger 
number are the faces of the whole scene. So,   we've got 385,087 faces. If I add a chair, 
that number increases slightly because again,   these are low poly models. If I add another chair, 
it increases again because it's adding a new model   with its own data. But if I change this to Append 
(Reuse Data), and then I add for example a coffee   table here. We are in 386,203. If now I add a 
second table, you'll see that it doesn't add more   faces. And in fact, I have this one selected and 
here we have 0 faces. And I can add another coffee   table again and it doesn't add data. We're just 
reusing the data of the first model that we added.  Let's say I wanted to modify this chair. I do 
that. Alright, we have a different chair. If   I do this with the table, you'll see that all 
the tables are modified. That's because we're   using the same data. So, for example, I modified 
this sink. If I were using the Reuse Data, then   every other sink that I added would have these 
dimensions. And that's not necessarily what you   want. You want to be flexible and be able to edit 
stuff. So that's why in general, we use Append.  Alright, so cabinets. So, for example, I'm gonna 
have to modify this. But then I'm gonna add it   again and I'm gonna modify it again. So yeah, in 
this case, it's better to Append. I'm gonna use   this one, 180, modify this again and one more. 
So, we have the island. And finally, the living   room. I named the sofas “couches”, so let's add 
this. I'm going to add probably an individual one,   something like that. Maybe that's enough. Maybe a 
coffee table here. And let's add a console. Place   it here and a TV on top of the console. Okay, 
looking good. Save your work. And we are done   with this part. So let me give it a quick render 
to see how it looks. It's looking great. We are   well on our way, we just need to add the floor 
and wall materials and light the scene to make   our final render. And we're gonna do that in 
the next and final part. I'll see you there.