I don't know what's happening, but lately I had to help a lot of people to fix their spatial decomposition. What do I mean by that? Well, they had many IFC models where they didn't have the correct spaces or the objects, the elements in their models were not belonging to the right space for some reason. I don't know what's happening but this has to be uh a very bad sign of quality. So I hope the the vendors are going to make some improvements when uh regarding the spaces and I think also users have to invest a little bit more time to understand how to manage how to handle the spaces when they export something from a tool to IFC. Today I'm going to use Bonsai Beam to show you how you can uh reassign, change that and yeah I'll I'll stick to this. I'll stick to this because maybe I should do another video where I show you also how to create and stuff like that. But yeah, it is not so complicated is quite straightforward to be honest. In this case, let me show you uh what I have here. uh if for some reason my uh shortcuts have um changed. Yeah. But anyway, this is the idea. Uh, I have this uh object and uh I want to show you how for some reason again is is making this but it's okay. And I'm just going to go here into was it uh boom boom boom boom server room. Here we have this object you see is this one right here selected. I will just hide everything else like the principle is the same. This is a sample project I'm using. So I will just isolate to this one. It's a discrete element the discrete accessory. I don't know this could be something I don't know a cabinet or something. It doesn't matter. This is not so important. But in order to see the same things like me or one way there are two ways to to change the special u container here to which uh special uh container it belongs to right. So first one it's here. If you are on the project overview by default then you go to object information tab after you click on the object and you'll see some metadata here first and under attributes then we have type and right after type we have spatial container which is exactly what it says it is by default in this model. Let me reload this so you see exactly what I'm talking about. Not really. I have to fix my uh shortcuts it seems. But let me do the same again. You see when I start I have two project overview tabs on both. And I go here. I will go for discrete accessory. What did I do here? And I'll take this cube. It's only one. I will select it. We see it's the same place, right? And I will isolate it. So now we have only this going on in the object information. I'll learn some things about this, right? We see that this belongs. This is a Oh no, this can't be right. Yeah, we have to click one more time on the object to to show to see the its object its properties and not something else. So after that we like I said we go here and we see special container and we see that this belongs to the building story one sometimes maybe we want to assign it to a specific room right and in that situation what we can do it's actually here we see because if you remember bonsai beam it's a bin it's a beam authoring tool okay an an IFC native authoring tool meaning that to it's not just a viewer. You can also modify, you can add, you can alter, you can model from scratch, right? So, we choose this building story and we press on edit. And now we see a drop-own menu and from here we can for example reassign it to the second to the second floor or to the uh third floor to the ground floor. Okay? Or we see that this is a building story. We see this this is a building something very strange. I saw lately a lot of objects being assigned to the IC building, not the building story, which is yeah, really bad. And I've seen this from different tools, not only Revit, even Techla as well. So, but I guess it has something to do with knowhow. Yeah. Anyway, so let's say you want to assign this. I told you I I put server room. I assume that maybe this this is a server, right? Let's assume you just scroll down or you can also search here. Server is not here. No. So, IC space. It's an IFC space server. No, it starts with F. I don't know the name exactly. No, is not. So, I will just cancel. Oh, yeah. Because the the the server room belongs to the floor to the story one first. So I think that's why it's not showing here. I'm not sure but I guess. Yeah, because that's everything we see here. Mhm. Let's see if I assign it to the story one. But this is how you do it. And we see we get a message here. One elements assigned. And you see that right now the building story is 01. Uh was it the same? Let's do 02 the same right but we see here let me show oh yeah um my bad my bad in the left hand side there is another way and yeah I forgot like this is the long name I was looking for server room which of course doesn't make sense so if you look at the first floor the first building story we see here we see something called. Where is [Music] I don't see it. It was server room. Not here. It's on the second. Yeah, it's here. It's FF uh 18. So, that's what I was supposed to to change, right? But it's the same. Like I told you, you can do this operation from another place as well. But yeah, here you can choose that. And for example, if you type in FF 18, we we get this room, right? But I will just leave it for the time being to the building story 02. And I'll show you how we do it in the other uh the other way of doing this, right? And it's here. This is the spatial decomposition. And it's important uh to to look for it here. And then we have here the objects the elements right it's very important to uh like for example here you can choose all a class of um a type of objects and to assign them to the same um uh space or yeah to the same special container but this is our cube uh our uh discrete accessory not a cube but yeah like let's say our server right and we see that right now we have the building story 02 Now in order to change that from here from this menu we have this icon right here and you see assign container and it assigns the selected uh object to the container selected in the spatial manager. So meaning that we have to select here the object that you want to assign and here right now we see that we have selected the project at the top. So you want to select the floor as I told you uh in our case I wanted that server room which is on the sec on the second floor. So it's here you see first you have to select it. Oh yeah because right now this one doesn't have anything. Yeah that's why it's not showing because this is on the second floor right. So we have to select this. Let's see. We have to select this one. And let's see if we select server room. Oh, that's strange. Okay. This is interesting. So now it's changing. [Music] Okay, let's take all of them. So if I select ah okay I think we have to press on this we have to press on this and then let's see ff now this is very strange maybe I have to press on this and only now it will work. No. Oh, maybe now it's selected assign container, but it got two elements, which is not what I wanted. And if you look here, yeah, it was assigned, but I'm not sure exactly what happened. So, let me uh undo this. So now we see again that this belongs to Ah okay okay okay I understand yeah okay sorry for this so instead of like we shouldn't select from here we just select the model the objects from the model we can do the same I think because yeah you when you press on on those things for example and I'll show you how we do when you press on this cursor it will select the object look in the model right now I unselected everything and I pressed on this it will select it right and now if we go to the FF 18 now it's already selected and now if we press on this it will show only one element yeah okay so this is the workflow even if we cannot see it at the bottom here it still works as expected right and we see that this time this one belongs to F18 now let's assume that we want to uh select a full class of uh things. So in this case we see that it's only one uh one like this. Let's say that all the doors for some reason right uh we want to change from uh from the second floor the then we go and press on this button to select all of them and then they are belonging to second floor. Let's assign assign them to the first floor. Oh, this was not what I intended. Oh, yeah. Maybe because I uh have everything hidden. Yeah, that could be it. So, I will go one more time to the second floor. Let me expand, collapse this to navigate quicker. So, I go on the second floor. I take all the doors. I select them. We see they are selected here. Now I press on the first floor and now I press on this and we see that indeed 11 doors. Uh why 11 doors? I'm not sure. Maybe I had selected from before something else. Uh but now if I isolate these doors, we see that they are on the second floor. But we see that the special container is the first floor. Yeah. And that's how you play with this. This is quite handy one uh for different reasons but yeah especially to meet uh requirements of a project but also to um to do more advanced things because yeah most of the times we get things that belong to the floor but yeah maybe you want to assign to a specific room as well. Yeah, sorry for um the not so um flowing and for exploring while sharing this, but I also hope that you appreciate this because this was not scripted or anything else. Um I I'm just aware of the functionality and I'm uh I'm sharing this information with you. So um I hope it's helpful to see the challenges that you might also get when you try to do so. I think this is pretty cool and I hope you enjoyed it. And by the way, if you didn't know already, I launched the BeamVoice Academy which you can find more details about at beamvoice.com. Okay, search in the description of this video, in the description of my YouTube channel, ask me on LinkedIn, send me an email to petrobvoice.com. It's very simple. And what's Beimvoice uh academy? If I say something else, it's Bimvoice Academy. Yeah, it's it's early in the morning, guys. Sorry. And it's been a while since I made a video. And yeah, I'm very happy to get back to to doing this. So, Bin Voice Academy. What's Bin Voice Academy? Well, it's training a very affordable training accessible to everyone. You can go and learn more about that there at bimvoice.com. But it's a private community and courses, many courses. We have eight, 10 courses, I'm not sure. But uh yeah um about everything when it comes to bonsai ideas exporting from Revit to IFC. So if you want to master the these things and be surrounded with other open beam enthusiasts and practitioners who are on the same journey, this is the place for you to be. Okay. Thank you very much for watching. Thank you very much for all your support. If you like this video, it helps a lot. If you share this video maybe with a colleague or somebody who could need these skills to learn how to save time when they work with IFC, then I really appreciate it. Thank you very much for your all your support and I wish you all the best. Have a good one. Bye-bye.