What's up guys? Justin here with the sketch essentials.com. So in today's video, we're going to talk about how you can choose a tool for creating AI images and renderings from your models. Let's go ahead and just jump into it. So just a quick reminder that my new course, the AI Essentials course, is on sale for lifetime access through end of the day Tuesday, September 1st. So, inside that course, you're going to find a start to finish process for creating amazing looking images from the models that you already have, as well as instruction on how to get started with AI and how to actually use it. You'll also get three great bonuses, including my AI visualization workbook, 60 days access to support, and sample projects so that you can practice yourself. So, if you're finally ready to take your AI skills to the next level, you can check that out at the sketchup essentials.com/aiic course. Okay. And so, I wanted to make a video that talked through the different options that you have for AI rendering tools because it's really confusing right now. And I think there's some things you should know. And there's also some things just like in general there's a lot of companies out there that are trying to sell an AI rendering product, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, but you do need to know some things about that because I have opinions about kind of the best way to do that and to get the most value. Um, and I'm sure everyone else does too, but I thought I'd at least share like generally what I know. And so just like as a general under the hood thing, so when AI render first came out and when AI rendering started to be a thing, um, everyone kind of had their own custom models and there are still custom models out there, right? But SketchUp had kind of like their own diffusion model that they were training in house. Um, everyone else had their models as well. But as as everything's kind of settled, it seems to be going more in the direction of there are some main tools that seem to do the best job not only of creating images, but also of retaining your details. And so there's really two front runners. Now, there are a bunch of other models out there, but very simplified, your two front runners are Google and their nano banana model and ChatGpt and their images model. Right? So, just chat GBT images. The reason why, and this one's still working on creating um I gave him the same prompt, right? Just give me a uh realistic image of a house in the mountains, right? The reason why these two models are currently considered the best is because you can do things to these you you can do things to these images and it will retain um the actual image that you had in there before, right? So, if I was going to say I want an image where the camera is closer to the house, don't change the actual house. And we're going to do that with both of these. The thing with these two models is they generally and not completely obviously because it did change things outside of the house because I wasn't specific enough, but generally they remember what was in the previous image. And so you can use this in order to create different angles. You can use it to change materials, things like that. And one of the most important things about working with a model like this, especially for rendering, is you can't have it forgetting that this fireplace was stone and making it out of like, you know, something else the next time, out of brick, you know, you can't have that happening. And so, we've got the front runners here, and this only move the camera a little bit closer. I didn't give it a very good prompt, but the point is these models are really good at remembering what's happening. And so because of that, because there are models out there that are better than all of the others, a lot of these external tools are built on top of um the base underlying models from elsewhere. And in a lot [clears throat] of cases, we'll talk about this later, there's tools where you can actually switch models. But SketchUp's AI render, I believe, is built on top of nano banana. And so in this case, if I give it a prompt, right, I say I want to create a realistic image of this space. Please retain all details and just make them more realistic. If I click on generate right here, what this is doing is this is uploading your stuff. Um, I think it's uploading it to Nano Banana. Now, I'm not 100% sure on that one, but I believe. And then it's getting a response back and it's creating a render based on that. So, this is AI render inside of SketchUp. And what it's doing is it's reaching out to those models to generate your image. Now, this can take a little while to do. Um, but one of the things to note about this is every time you do this, it takes credits, right? And so, it's come in here, and this is all like fair. Um, what it did in here is good. Um, but it's not fantastic and partially that's because I need to prompt it and add some additional things and things like that. Um, but I mean it did a decent job. Now, what I don't like about this particular version is the changing and editing functions and also the fact that I can't give it reference images in order to make an image. So if I look at this right here, if I say keep the image as is, but the table should be completely wood, no glass top. Don't change any other elements. And I click on generate again. It's just going to re-upload the image with the prompt and it's going to come back. And my issue with this isn't necessarily that it's bad, but it's just kind of like this disconnected workflow where you're just like shooting it up into the cloud and then this response is coming back and there's no real like conversation in here with your model about the changes that are being made. Now, that being said, it did a pretty decent job in here, at least of changing that to wood. So, that's a good thing. Um, but notice how it's also doing some other things like adding books on the shelf and things like that which I didn't really tell it to do. Um, and then I mean there are tools in here to try to like erase artifacts or make changes. So you can like sketch something on here and try to add something. But in general, what I want to do is I want to upload an image of an actual table and say, "Hey, make this table look like this real world table." There's no real way to do that inside of the SketchUp tool. Um, on top of that, and we're going to talk about this more, right? You get a certain number of credits depending on what your subscription is. So, we're going to use 10 credits in here every time that we regenerate an image. So, if you have the AI subscription, which I think is like $12 a month, it gives you like 1,500 additional credits in here. that comes out to um at 10 at at 10 credits per image that comes out to approximately 165 images. Um which is a lot. I mean, it's a fair number of these, but just know that you're going to be going through and you're going to be making a lot of changes and edits and things like that. And I will just tell you that in general, and we'll talk about why in a little bit, I just feel like I get more out of um a chat GBT membership or a Gemini membership or something like that, but you can definitely use this tool. It has gotten a lot better. Um I don't necessarily love it as your primary rendering tool. Now, another way that you can go about creating images is exactly what we just did, right? We can take an image like this one and we can upload it to a chat GBT or a Gemini. So, if we just take a screen capture and we upload that screen capture to either one of these tools, right? So, we're going to do this for both of these. We're just going to give these a simple prompt. If you want some more complex prompts and information about how to do this, I talk about it a lot more in my AI essentials course um which is currently on sale for lifetime access through um through Tuesday, September 1st at 11:59 p.m. So um you can check that out at the sketch essentials.com/aiicourse. But for this video, we're just going to do some like simple stuff. So, we're just going to use that same prompt, right? I want to create a realistic render of this space, maintaining the overall layout, locations of furniture, etc. And we'll just leave it like that. Again, like not the best prompt in the world, but I mean, this is more the way that I like to do this. And I like to do that for a couple different reasons. Um, and we have options. I mean, Gemini with Nano Banana and Chat GBT are really the two best. Um, if I'm being honest, I'm currently getting better images out of ChatGBT than I am out of Gemini, but you can use either one. Um, but the nice thing about these is a you have the ability to talk directly to the model in more of like a conversational way, right? It's more of a linear discussion that's in here. Um, so that's one thing about this. Um, but you can also give it additional information. So, for example, inside of these tools, I can actually paste an image and say I actually want the table in the room to be this product right here. And I'm going to hit enter. I'll do the same thing for the GPT version. Right? So, don't change anything else. Generally, these two models are doing a really good job of already understanding that you don't want anything else in your model changed. Um, but you can see how that actually came in here and that swapped out the table in here like this, right? While it maintained all of the other details that are in here. Now, the there's a couple other reasons I like doing this directly inside of the models. Um, one of which is the credits are cheaper. And so the way that these tools work, and I'll get more like we're going to look at another tool that gives you access to like multiple models and things, but the way that the credits generally work or the tokens um is if you go directly through chat GPT or Gemini or any of the models with their um their direct access, usually the tokens are a lot cheaper than if you go through a tool that's accessing um the models through an API, right? So if you have an external API that's calling Nano Banana and then you build kind of like your own system around it, the API cost for credits are significantly higher than if you just go straight through these tools right here. So I feel like I get a lot more usage out of a $20 a month chat GPT plan than I would out of a $20 a month other tool, especially as they get more complex and you start building out like multiple different prompts and things like that. um because then you're like running something here, something here, something here, something here. And especially when you get into video, um you can just burn through those credits really quickly because it's way more expensive to access through an API than it is directly inside of the tool. So, as a starter, I really like working inside of these tools because it gives me a lot more images. Um like I don't think I've ever hit an image creation limit on ChatGpt ever um with my $20 a month plus plan. So definitely something to consider when you're looking into these different tools. Okay. And so the other thing about these tools, and oddly enough, I'm actually liking what Gemini is doing more in this case um than what ChatGBT is doing. That's generally not the case. Um but what I like about these tools as well is this is kind of a discussion, right? It's a conversation. And so what that means is I look at both of these and I'm like, I don't love my camera angle, right? Well, with these tools, I can say, I don't really like the camera angle. Can you analyze the image and give me some options on how to make this better, right? You can leave it like very open-ended, but you can ask for their expertise in either one of these tools. Right? I don't love the camera angle. Can you analyze these things and give me options on how to make this better? Um, so that I really like about these tools is it's a lot more of a conversation and what it's going to do. And it looks like Gemini is just going to create an image, which is not what I was looking for. Um, chat GPT is actually giving me like options in here like this. So, and and this is fine too, right? This is interesting. this actually came in here and it generated the images like so. Um I'm actually okay with that. Um I really like the way that this looks. This is really interesting. But either way within these tools I can say hey what would make this better? And so like for example with this one I'll just say I'll just say let's go with option one but I want to make sure we have an interesting focal point of the image so that it's visually engaging. And so for this one that's going to be more like option B. So within Gemini I'm going to say let's go with option B. and it's going to go through and it's going to regenerate the image. But the thing is you're kind of going back and forth and back and forth and you're getting these changes in here that you want versus um it just kind of feels like with the AI render tool inside of SketchUp, you're kind of like shooting it off into the void and then it's like shooting something back. This is where I start having issues with Nano Banana is it can sometimes forget what it's doing and things like that, which is another reason I've been liking Chad GPT a little bit better recently. You can see how this one actually took this view, kind of moved it around and kind of moved it in and kind of like followed my instructions. Um, but we can kind of iterate on this with the new work mode in chat GBT. It also saves my outputs over here so that I can actually get to them really quickly. So I can get to them really quickly rather than having to dig through a giant chat. Okay. And so where this gets weird and complicated is there's a ton of tools out there, right, for creating AI images at this point. Um, so there's Adobe Firefly, there's Magnific, there's Craya, there's uh Open Art, there's Renair, there's a Varys. So there's a bunch of different tools out there and it can get really really confusing trying to figure out like which one should I use and all of that. And they've all got like different versions of different uh they've [snorts] got different versions of um different tools and they've got all these images on their websites and it can be really confusing. And so the way that I look at these tools is I'm less looking at the images and more looking at the tools that are kind of built into them if that makes sense. So let's look at Firefly for example. So if you use Firefly, right? What what a lot of these tools give you is they give you access to a bunch of different models. So Adobe has their own models um right here. There's benefits here. Like for example, the Adobe models are commercially safe. And so like one of the pluses of Firefly for example is um you know that these have been trained on stuff where they actually have like licenses to use it. Um so depending on where you work that can be really important the data set that was actually trained on but that's one of the benefits of using Firefly. You do also have options to use all of these other tools as well. Now, a lot of the time what these are what what these different programs are is they may have their own models, but mostly they're acting as kind of like windows into the other models that are in here with different interfaces and um benefits and things like that. Right? So, Magnific, which I'll talk about more in a minute, one of the things I like about Magnific is it's got this kind of like nodebased workflow, which would give me the ability to build out kind of like a templatized um process. So I could like pre-build [clears throat] a process and drop that in with the different nodes. But if I go into a if I go into a space and say I've got an image in here and I want to make a change, what I do is I drag off into a node. I bring an image generator in and then what it does is it gives me access to all of these different models. There's not like a magnific model that they have in here. instead you're utilizing credits in order to use these different um these different uh external models and create your images that way. Um so the plus on especially the nodebased is it's got a lot of like awesome tools for you know changing camera views and things like that. Um so what I look at a lot of the time is not necessarily because most of them have access to the big models right if I look in Craya right here. So Craya does have their own model, but they also have access to like Nano Banana and Flux and ChatGBT and things like that. Um, so but again, you're going to use credits doing that. Like all of them in general seem to have access just like high level to the different models that are in here. Um, a lot of them also have access to the video models which can be a benefit too. Though I found I go through the credits really quickly when I'm trying to generate video. Now there are some tools like Varys. Varys, for example, you know, I mean, one of the reasons that you might want to go with the Varys is it's got some additional cool tools for, you know, like changing the camera view of your image or um doing like different rapid selections and then modifying those areas and things like that. So, it's got a few more like architectural specific type features in there. And so, like I'm pretty sure that Varys is built on Nano Banana Pro. So, you you wouldn't use Varys to like access Nano Banana Pro, right? you would just use Nano Banana Pro inside of a Gemini membership. But if you like some of the different tools that they have built in here for removal of backgrounds and changing camera angles and things like that, um, and some of their other tools, then that might be a more compelling reason to go with that. Um, but that's kind of what you're looking for inside of these tools, right? Is what what makes them different and what differentiates them. Because if you're just going to drop an image in and then be like, "Okay, use Nano Banana Pro or use Chat GBT to generate an image." There's no real reason to just use one of these tools like Renair or any of those for something like that. So, it's it's really a question of do they add something to the process. So currently for me the only tool that I'm really using outside of this process is Magnific specifically because of the nodebased workflow and what it does with uh giving you the ability to do like presets and also giving you the ability to you can utilize like multiple different models at the same time and look at how nano banana versus chat GBT or something like that would render something. So um that's maybe why I would use a tool like that. And so for me personally, I am doing most of my rendering directly inside of um chat GBT and Nano Banana, mostly ChatGBT right now. Now, the other tools can be interesting. Um sometimes they can give you access also to like video creation tools and things like that that you wouldn't have otherwise, but for the most part, it's just very easy and conversational for me to just generate the renderings directly inside of ChatGBT. Um, so if you are looking at something outside of one of those other models, just make sure that you've reviewed the features and make sure they're actually adding something that you actually want to use because if you're just paying money to access the models, you could do that directly for a lower price. So just be aware of what you're doing um, and what you need and that's going to make making the selection a lot easier. And so if you do want to learn more about how to use AI kind of start to finish, you can definitely check out my course, the AI Essentials course. Um, I go all the way from the very beginning teaching you the basics of AI all the way through using it to create amazing looking renderings and videos and other things like that. So, if you'd love to learn more about this, definitely check that out. As always, thank you so much for taking the time to watch this and I'll catch you in the next video. Thanks guys.