2D PDF construction drawings are a terrible input to AI models, which obviously has implications whenever we want AI to help us with construction management tasks like estimating, scheduling, contract management, or procurement. All of these tasks rely on being able to actually read and interpret construction drawings and extract useful and relevant information from them. So, in this video, I'm going to give you a very simple three-layered approach we can use to turn construction drawings into AI-ready data. And this is going to drastically reduce the number of tokens we use when we perform these construction management tasks and also increase the reliability with which AI can perform them. So, there's really three reasons AI struggles to read drawings. Number one is that typically just huge files. So, for example, this set of civil construction drawings is 6 megabytes and I believe it is only 10 or 15 drawings. So, if I just try to upload these into a Claude chat, I'm going to try if 6 megabytes will work, but I find Claude is pretty hit and miss with actually even being able to upload file size this big. 6 megabytes might be able to do, but anything over 10 megabytes, it just never seems to upload. And to be fair to Claude, that did successfully upload. But I guarantee anything over 10 megabytes, you will not be able to get it into the chat. Now, if you're familiar with tools like Claude Co-work or ChatGPT Coda Codex or Google Anti-gravity, you know the workaround for this is instead of trying to upload the file into a chat, you actually use a harness and open Co-work or Claude Code or whatever the harness you're using is, you open it within the file in your desktop. Now, the problem with this approach is that every time you actually query the drawings or want AI to read the drawings, it's ingesting a 6 megabyte, a 10 megabyte file into the context window. Not only is this going to consume a massive amount of tokens and you're going to quickly hit your usage caps, but it is also going to cause AI to suffer from an issue referred to as context rot. So, context rot is a well-documented issue that the more information you give an AI model, the less reliable the output you get. So, for example, if we want to use this set of construction drawings to maybe maybe we're drafting a scope of works for our concrete contractor, we might only want a couple of bits of information from the drawings like the concrete specifications, maybe the number of slabs, maybe just a maybe the drawings the slabs are on. It will generally be very small bits of information we want. So, it's a bit of a waste to ingest a 10 MB 15 MB set of drawings to find those few bits of information we want. And on top of that, we're going to actually not be able to retrieve that information as reliably. Now, the third challenge AI has when reading construction drawings is the fact that the information is often formatted in a way that is easy for us to read, but it is not easy for AI to read. So, for example, this set of drawings, there is a site layout plan, but then a couple of drawings later is a section view where you would actually get the slab depth. So, again, even if we say split the drawings into individual PDFs or basically maybe build an index for them, it is still going to struggle because it's going to have it's not the drawings are laid out in a way that's intuitive for us to scroll through them, but they're not intuitive for how we want to query the information. We want to know the information about the concrete works. It should be the information should be grouped not by the number of drawings, which isn't necessarily logical. We want to group it by the structures of the features or the information that we're actually trying to retrieve. Now, originally I said there were three limitations. I have just realized there's actually four. The fourth one is precise measurement. So, the problem with AI trying to get it to read construction drawings is it is trying to measure and interpret visual information and to draw very distinct very precise differences between them. So, say for example, you have a set of plumbing schematics. So, this is a good example to show you. This dashed line means something different to this dashed line. One is a cold water line, one is a hot water line. That is in important implications for estimating, scheduling, all these different tasks, but from AI's perspective, because it's trying to interpret the image, they are unbelievably similar. Now, if you want an interesting benchmark to prove this, and if you're not familiar with a what a benchmark is, it is when the AI models and tests their capabilities are tested for different tasks. So, this I think is a fascinating one, that it measures how well AI can interpret actually read an analog clock. So, a trivial task for all of us. The top AI model GPT-5.4 reads analog clocks with 50.6% accuracy compared to the human baseline of 90%. Now, I don't know, it's somewhat interesting that the human baseline is only 90%, but still, reading an analog clock, something that is really simple. You just line up where the hands are, AI really really struggles at this. What it really struggles with precise interpretation of images. You can upload a picture of a cat and AI can say, "Yes, that's a cat." But that is very very different to looking at a construction drawing and being like, "That line is different to that line." Or over here there's a CW and over there there's a HW, so that is how I'm interpreting that information. It's very different to how I just look at a drawing and be like, "Well, this is a plumbing drawing or this is a schematic. Therefore, I this is the plumbing drawing." That is very different to be able to go through and be like, "Well, that is 20.7 m of hot water line." So, basically, what do we want to do? We want to take all these failures that AI has around understanding construction drawings and actually build a workflow that allows us to turn our construction drawings into an sort of an AI layer or an AI data set that AI can read cheaply, accurately, and reliably. And what we've done is basically turned our drawings into a queryable queryable data set grouped by the actual elements of what we are building. Rather than AI having to go through each individual drawing, we basically group it by the structure, the slab, the different slabs, by earthworks, basically all the different physical things we're building, and within that we nest information. So, this is an example of a queryable database, and it is say it has an element, which is the ground beam. It has a category, it has a trade, which is structural, it has a location, and it has the measurements we've associated with it, the quantities, the specific the relevant specifications about element. We can do this for mechanical, electrical, civil, everything. Basically, we're going to to actually build this out, we're going to use three independent data sets. We're going to use the actual image layer on the PDF. We're going to use the vector data, which is the vector data is the actual text and symbols and geometry data. The final thing we do, so we're going to actually, and this is the manual part of the process, is we're going to actually export our quantity take-offs to do this. Now, everyone wants AI quantity take-off tools. Unfortunately, from what I've seen, they don't really work that well. But, if we actually if we are going to prepare an estimate for the project or in the pre-construction project, we are actually going to have to go and do the physical quantity take-off ourselves the estimate. So, we're doing that anyway for estimate, all we do is then export the actual data file of our quantity take-offs, and then we combine this with the PDF drawings that contain the vic- vector data and the visual information. We combine these all together, and we basically build the structured database of what we're actually doing that AI can then query. So, our database has the elements of what we're building, for example, an air handling unit, what trade it is, what category it is, what information is provided, specifications, what comments and tags, relationships with other things, the actual quantities that we've measured of each element. Now, this is actually an idea I copied from BIM, which actually has the IFC model format that uses this exact strategy. And that's why, again, said this in other videos, that if instead of getting the 2D drawings, you can get the 3D BIM model, that is basically going to cut out this entire process. But, if you do want to get the 2D drawings and you are going to do a quantity take off anyway, then I suggest using ZZ takeoff because they have this data export feature, which basically allows you to export all your quantity takeoff data plus the actual assemblies you have built. So, again, a very, very rich data set, and you're going to be able to build this data file, which is a representation of the construction drawings. So, the reason this three layer approach works so well is because, say you just extract the vector data, you give AI this massive set of coordinates, text, or anything, but it doesn't really mean anything. The image data you layer on top of this, so then AI can build this conceptual understanding of what it can do, because again, AI is good at doing things like recognizing, "This is a cat or this is a dog." So, it can look at a drawing and be like, "Well, this is a plumbing layout with hydraulics positioning." But, you use the vector data for the more precise understanding. And then we combine this with the takeoff data, which gives it an extra layer of understanding that's much more precise and tagged with our assembly data, where we're really basically building out this entire structure of what we're building. And this also gives it the verified quantities. Now, the first layer of this is to actually go and split the drawings and extract the vector data. So, I built this into a workflow I call drawing analyzer. I've done a few videos on this, so I'll link them below if you want more details and understanding of how that runs. But, what that is basically doing is bring up the right folder. That is splitting all the construction drawings, extracting all the text and vector data from them. It is creating individual images, and then it creates some sub-agents that go and analyze what is on each individual drawing, and basically uses like a cheaper model like Haiku instead of Opus to basically go and extract it, build an index of all your construction drawings, and understand exactly what is on each drawing. This builds the original structure for this drawing database. But, again, I've done a couple of drawings there only up to not a couple of drawings, I've done a couple of videos going into much more detail on how that runs. Then, what you do is you just go and do your quantity takeoff. Again, you have to do this anyway for doing an estimate, but you go mark up the slab, get all the measurements, build out your assemblies, and you just have this incredibly rich structured data set. Then, all you do is export the raw data, go into Claude after it's run the drawing analyzer, and basically just tell it combine my takeoff data with my drawing analyzer output to create my structured drawing summary. Okay, so I just say you a quick example of how quickly this can retrieve information is referring to my drawing database, can you please provide a summary of all the ground beams and the quantities? And, again, it's just going to quickly go into that data set rather than the raw PDF drawings, and it's going to extract the relevant information. Unless Claude is going to disappoint me now and take way longer than it's planned, but it's opening up the drawing database, and I won't pause the camera so you can see how long it takes in real time. Again, the other thing that I've probably done wrong with this is it the data race is all sitting as one text file. What you should actually have is some sort of database structure like an SQL database. But here we go, it's returned it in What is it? Here we go, it's given a quick summary of all the drawings. And again, if I ask it how many tokens did that use? Please estimate. And I'll see what it comes back with. And that said, total reading the database was 4 and 1/2 thousand. But again, if you use a database rather than a JSON file, that would be more effective. So all up 6,000 to 7,000 tokens. I'm going to compare this on a 6 megabyte set of drawings. Okay, so just quickly running that. Based on the set of construction drawings in the folder, can you please give me a summary of all the ground beams for the project? And I will leave that running and I'll see how long it takes and how many tokens it uses. But I'm not going to leave the camera running when this goes cuz this is going to take a while. Okay, so this is a couple minutes later and it is still running. I've also asked it to return how many tokens and how long it cost. But I'm hungry and I want to get something to eat. So hopefully it finishes in a second, but I'll just quickly wrap up the video. If you want to do If you want to understand the drawing analyzer skill more, then I'll put a link to video for that in the description. But if you want to check out ZZ takeoff, I'll also put a link in the description for that. I think it is an incredibly good takeoff software. It makes building assemblies and actually doing quantity takeoffs insanely fast and I really like it and I think they have some exciting AI features coming out. Again, I hope they crack the problem of how to do AI quantity takeoffs cuz it'll make some of this stuff redundant. But for now, I I I'll put a link for it in the video description. I recommend trying it out. I'll wait a couple more minutes to see if this runs to tell you how many tokens and how long it took, but if not, I might have to cancel and go get something to eat. Okay, so that hasn't finished That just finished running and it has actually returned the number and type of ground beams. It hasn't given us the length cuz obviously hasn't been able to precisely measure that and it has given us the common specs. On my question, it said 2 to 3 minutes, but I can tell you it was way more than that and it used 30 to 45K tokens, but I think in practice, it used a lot more tokens than that.