When you ask AI to review a contract, it'll flag 30 clauses. Half of them will be useful, half of them won't. It might focus way too much on liquidated damages when you actually have a lot of float in your program, and it might not properly pick up the impact of cash flow of the 15% security requirements. None of this is an example of AI is bad. It's an example of AI not having the correct context to complete the task. So, in this video, I'm going to walk you through the eight levels of context from simple chat interfaces to a full construction operating system. First up, I want to try and establish why context is so important to any construction task. Say for example, we want to write a scope of works for a certain trade. We need our company's template scope of works and typical format. We need how that company typically packages up trades, how they split different scopes of works, their standard procurement register, register, the list of background documents, the project scope from the head contract and specs, all of their drawings, which items they want to keep as provisional sums, which are going to be lump sum, which are going to be schedule of rates, and your standard inclusions and exclusions. If you ask AI to write a scope of works without all this background information, it'd be like hiring a new contracts admin, asking them to write a scope of works, and then being critical of them because they didn't know that you usually get the civil contractor to do the underground conduits. Now, the thing with people is that you can tell them this once, and hopefully they remember. But, AI has amnesia. If you tell it something in one chat, it won't necessarily remember in the next. So, if we think of how much context we would need to do something like write a scope of works, it almost becomes easier to do it itself than to assemble the necessary context to get AI to perform the task well. So, as we move up the levels in the context layers, this is all going to be about how you give AI continual easy access to the context it needs for each task. It also follows the principle that I talk about in all my videos where you should use and see AI as a data transformation and a data reformatting tool. You always want to be defining the process and giving it the background information and specifying the output format. If you do those three things, you'll typically get reliable output. For example, if I want to use AI to perform a quote comparison, I give it the quotes, I give it an example output format, and then as well, I specify the workflow by calling a skill. So, using my subcontract quote comparison analysis, perform a quote comparison. So, again, input data, workflow specified, and output format, and it's going to do it relatively reliably. So, when we talk about layers of context, it's all about talking about how we give it easy access to this information, how we give it access to our workflows, how we give it access to our business data. Because, basically, if we're not having to copy things in all the time and upload documents or write long and confusing prompts, it's always going to be much more It's always going to do the task much more reliably. And a simple hack to always making sure AI has the right information to the process is at the end of all your prompts, simply write, "Ask any clarifying questions if you're unsure." And it's telling AI it has freedom to come back and request more information from you. So, layer one would be how most people use AI where you're simply opening something like Claude or ChatGPT, and you're asking it a question. So, you're using it like an enhanced Google search. So, if I could Look, I can ask it something like, "What's the difference between a provisional sum and a variation?" It knows nothing else about me or my circumstances other than the question I've asked it. So, I'm using it like an enhanced Google search. Challenge with this is it's starting from scratch every time. It doesn't know me, it doesn't know my circumstances. So, if I wanted to do something more complicated, more tailored to this workflow, then I have to give it more and more background information. I have to write a massive prompt. I have to attach a ton of documents. So, level two above this is to work in chats within a project. So, a Claude project or different like Gemini and ChatGPT have similar features. You upload all of the project documents into a database, then every chat that you start within that project, it can call and pull information from this database. For example, once I upload my scope of works, my drawings, and my estimate for this project, for example, then I can ask it questions like, "What specs are on the drawings about materials?" Much easier because I've only uploaded the documents once, and it can pull information from the documents as I need it. If you want a better rag system, then you can use something like Notebook LM, which I find is the best one at retrieving information, and you can upload a lot of documentation into that and run Q&A, and it will only answer based on citations referencing the source documents. It's also multimodal, so I find with the Gemini 3 Pro model, it reads construction drawings very well. So, I go back to my Claude chat, and it has pulled the information around the specs from the drawings. I could go open another chat, and again, it would be able to read these same documents. I don't have to upload it time and time again. Now, rag project or rag systems or projects are great for static data, but they are not great for things like workflows. So, the next level of context we're going to talk about is how you define a repeatable process that would you would use across multiple different projects, which is referred to as a skill. So, Claude allows you to set up a library of repeatable workflows referred to as skill. A skill is a set of instructions with nested examples. They can store code. They can do a whole lot of different things. But, basically, you take a task like, for example, preparing an operations and maintenance manual. You define the exact process you want it to follow within that skill. You give it a ton of examples of what you want on different pages, the structure, and you give it a desired output format. Then, the skill Every time you call the skill in a chat, you can then the AI will call that workflow. So, then within the chat, all I do is prepare my operations and maintenance manual using and then I just reference the specific workflow that I want it to follow. And in this situation, it has access to my project documents, and it also has access to my library of workflows. So, across time as a company, you can build a massive library of all your standard operating procedures and store them as skills. For example, you could have a contract review skill, you could have an estimating skill, you could have a procurement packaging skill, you could have one for preparing pricing schedules, for doing cash flow forecasting. Basically, defining in a lot of detail exactly how you want it to do a task and giving it a ton of examples. Within Contractor OS, where you have a library of pre-built tailored construction skills like estimating, project controls, bidding and procurement that you can simply download and install and then customize with your specific output templates. Because that is the beauty of these workflows is that you customize them using your templates, you specify the exact output format, and you give them a ton of nested examples that they can call on. Again, it's just about detailing and put it setting up guardrails for AI so it does exactly what you want it to. Skills fundamentally solve two big problems when using AI, which is output variability. Every time you ask it to do the same task, it'll give you a slightly different output, which makes reviewing it and checking it annoying. And you also go back and tell it, "Do this differently. Do this differently. Do this differently." And every time you ask it to do that same task, you have to give it the same incremental improvements. With a skill, you do that once, you store those instructions as a skill, then the next time you call it, AI already knows what you want. It gives you much more reliable output, and then over time, the more you use these skills, the more you iterate when you're using them, the better they get. I was going to wait and show you the output of this, but it's taking too long, so maybe I'll come back to it later if it's finished. But, the problem with this system of chat and skills is we only have access to static documents. So, for example, we have a variation register that is relevant to AI that gets updated once a week or every time there's a new variation, then AI isn't going to see that. Which brings me to the next layer of context, which is using a tool like Claude Coda Work, where you can open AI and give it access to your folders. So, there's a couple of tools similar to this. You can use Coda Work or Code, which is similar, but a bit more advanced if you want to write code and run scripts. ChatGPT has Coda X, and Google has Anti-Gravity. They all do the same things. What you do is you open your You You You can open AI in a folder on your desktop. So, I'm going to open it in the example folder I've set up for this video. And what it can now do is it can read and write to all the files within that desktop. So, again, if I sync my SharePoint with my desktop folder, and our project Our company has a SharePoint folder that it stores all the project documentation in, then now AI can read and write to all those files. So, now I can ask it what uh the quality requirements for this project. And it can search through every file in my folder to get this information. And the beauty of this is it still has access to my skill library. So, any of those previous skills I had like prepare me an operations and maintenance manual or review a contract, all these tasks I can do within Clowd Work. And so, what it's done is it has returned this information by reading my documents and extracting the data. Now, there are some challenges you're going to run into when using Clowd Work. Number one is it going to is just going to be it's going to use a huge amount of tokens. And what this happens is every time it reads a PDF, it has to convert that PDF into a text format that AI can read and understand because AI deals in text. So, if you extend this out to dealing with multiple different PDFs, Excel, all these different formats, every time you ask AI to do a task, it is going to have to go through So, if I just open this project folder up to show you. Every time it needs information, it is going to have to pull from this Word doc, this PDF, these drawings. And every time it does this, it's going to be consuming tokens, which is obviously not great for your account. But also, it decreases the accuracy and speed at which you get results. The solution to this is a clowd.a What am I doing? A clowd.md file, which is a markdown file that sits at the start of your project directory. It doesn't have to sit at the start of the project directory. You could create in your project folders a folder called AI where it stores this in. And it's basically a summary of all the information in your project file. So, project summary background, so a quick summary that AI can read so it gets context about project. Where a layout of your folder and where to find each different file. Basically, the current status of the project. And then you can create this markdown file with AI. But then every time you do something, it updates the clowd.md. And then it basically develops a memory of your project and where everything is up to. This is like an auto-updating system prompt that every time it does something new, it documents it in clowd.md. It keeps up-to-date with your files, the structure of it. And when you use a structure like this, if you ask it to review a contract, it knows that you find the contract within the tender and contract documents in this specific situation. And this is what that document contains. Now, theoretically, you could write this yourself, but obviously because we're using AI, we're going to get AI to write it. And all this does is when you first set up a new folder or when you first set up a new project in Clowd Work, you simply ask it to prepare a clowd.md file with summary of all the documents and the background on the project information. Just simply doing something like this, Clowd Work is going to be much faster at responding and use much less tokens. Now, the other layer to Clowd Work, which again, when Clowd Work when you're opening Clowd a folder in Clowd Work, it just has access to these static documents. So, in the same way that we used a chat project, the next layer of context would be to use a Clowd Work project where in Clowd Work, we create a new project and within that project, we store all our static documents in the same way using a a rag database. So, I can create construction project. I can input a system prompt in here or some general instructions it always reads. This Within a project, you also have persistent memory from chats. So, instead of you having to update that clowd.md file, having to tell Clowd to update it, within if you're using a chat, it'll have memory between conversations. And you can also upload all of the key project documents. So, I would put anything that is static within this Why did that not upload? There we go. I'll just put the documents in and then anything that is static sits within this rag database within the project. And in the same way as we had the chat, we have the we have persistent memory and then system instructions that we can install within the Clowd project. We have a project it's operating in. And then our key documents are in a rag database, so it's going to be able to retrieve them much more easily. So, within this shared context or within this um let's say rag database within the project, I would have their static documents, but then registers anything that gets updated that would still live in your folder and AI would be reading that as it needs it. Okay, so those are more or less those first five layers are basically how we give AI easy access to project documents and some tips to get it to respond much quicker and more accurately. Now, the next three layers I'm going to talk about are personal data, business uh project data, and business data. These are where we get into more of some advanced techniques, which is more about customizing to your specific workflows. So, the next two levels I'm going to talk about are setting up what is referred to as a personal operating system and a business operating system. And basically, everyone is talking about this online at the moment. But all this is is a very fancy way of saying create a library of what is referred to as a Wikipedia of markdown files. So, for example, this is a tool I'm using which is a markdown file viewer, which people really like, which basically helps you structure all these different markdown files and add linkages between them. This tool is called Obsidian and it's basically a way of mirroring project files, setting up your own library of markdown files and instructions in and then being able to easily view and edit them. So, a lot of people online refer to Obsidian as a second brain. And all it is is it's a very fancy notepad viewer, which allows you to set up these structured almost Wikipedia pages. So, for example, within my project folder, within every single folder within there, I've created replica markdown files. And you could do this within the actual project folders or you could do this within a separate AI folder if you don't want all of your folders to be cluttered with this. But it's basically got directions on how to perform each task. So, I could put in there things like a personal knowledge base where I have again rules about how to negotiate, rules about standard contract processes or procedures. Or if I'm an estimator, how I want AI to estimate. This could all go in some sort of personal knowledge database like this, like a checklist I wanted to go through. And I could do this in my personal folder at my personal level. Or we could create a project operating system where there is specific project structures and processes for doing stuff. Again, but what this really is, it's just a ton of markdown files that detail my processes and my procedures. You could also set up some sort of persistent project memory that contains all of your meeting minutes, correspondence. Again, really depends how you want to structure it, but it's just it's a way of understanding that you can create these memory files, these process files in Obsidian. And a lot of people like Obsidian because you can link all these concepts together in a Wikipedia and it has this fancy visual thing, which I guess looks great in images and videos, but I don't think is personally the most useful thing in the world. But it basically builds these maps of related concepts and you can do that by linking these different pages together. Now, the problem with these markdown files is they live within a folder on your desktop. So, they work great if you're using a tool like Clowd Work because it can read them all. The next level and the final level of the context I would say is business-level data, which case you're best to use a tool like Airtable. If you can imagine what sort of business database we'd want, we might want a list of subcontractors and suppliers. We might want a historic cost database with all our previous cost data. We might have a lessons learned library. We might have a win-loss record. So, for something like that, you are best off using a tool like Airtable and then setting up a connector to Clowd to access that data. So, if I go to the customize tab, I go connect my apps. I have Airtable. Oop. I connect Airtable. I granted access to my database. I add all resources, grant access. And again, you don't have to use Airtable. You could use Notion. You could use Superbase. There's a ton of different tools you like it. I genu- I think Airtable is like I really like the user interface and the structure of the data, which I'll show you in a second. But basically, all you're doing now is connecting Clowd to Airtable. Now, Clowd can read and write to my Airtable database. You could also do this in Excel with a SharePoint integration. So, if you're already in the Microsoft environment or if you're using Google and use Google Sheets, again, you could do this exact same thing. But the point is to have some sort of structured database that is shared within your business. And then within here, for example, I can have this database of all my historic costs, all my suppliers and subcontractors, all my tender outcomes, all my lessons learned. So, this could be a knowledge base that everyone in my company have access to through Clowd. And everyone has a specific Clowd connection to that knowledge base. So, putting this layered context together, I can say prepare an estimate for my project using my estimate skill. Let's go down and just get I think I've gone past the estimating workflow. Access my cost database in my add table base instruction cost intelligence. So, it's working in Cowork, so it has access to all the project documents. It has access to my skills and workflows, and now it has access to my business data, and I can guarantee this task is going to take a couple of minutes to run, but it's got my workflows stored. It's got access to my business data. It's got access to my project folder and all my markdown folders and files with rates. So, yes, in principle, nothing I've done here you couldn't do in a normal chat. In Oh, you'd probably overwhelm the context window in the chat, but in practice, everything I'm doing here you could do within a chat interface. You just have to copy in 50 documents. By setting up some database instruction like this, it AI has access to so much context it can pull information as it needs it. And the thing is, every time you do tasks like this, you actually improve AI's ability to do the task the next time cuz if it does something you don't like, you can iterate and improve the skill. If it didn't pull the right information, you can specify in the skill where to get the data from. If it missed extracting something from a drawing, you could set up a separate skill for how to extract relevant information from drawings. All these different tasks will improve over time the more you use it. But again, it's just setting up some layered system so you have very easily accessible to all the context it needs to do the task. So, again, a lot of this relies on actually having a very good library of workflows that you can customize to your specific processes. So, if you want a complete guide to how to use Claude skills in construction, then watch this video next.