Hello everyone. This is the IFC architect and today we're going to move on to part two of this beginner project. We're going to move on to drafting 2D drafting. All right, let's get to it. So, I've loaded up my model from part one and what we're going to do here is we're going to create a drawing. So, on the top right hand side here, we're going to either click on this little paper icon, this fourth from the right, that brings us to drawings of documents. We're going to go to drawings. We're going to click on this little down arrow that says load drawings. And then we're going to select plan, which is there by default. And we're going to select my story. So it's not going to be origin. And we're going to click on the little plus icon to add the drawing. Once the drawing has been added, you can see there'll be a camera in the scene. What we need to do from here is click on this little drop down here and select the my story plan from the plan view category. We need to select this my story plan here. And then we need to click on this little camera icon which is activate drawing. And it will open up the drawing into your view. From here, there's a few things we want to adjust. The width and the height are something I want to change immediately. So, I'm going to go and change it to 15 m or maybe 10 m rather. I'm using millimeters, but you can use any format that you like. And I'm just going to center this roughly over my drawing. Make it 10 wide. And maybe the height can be eight. And I'm just going to change the camera scale from 1 to 100 to 1 to 50, which I just feel is more appropriate. So once we've done that, we can reactivate the drawing. We can click on this little create drawing button and then at the bottom it will say one drawing is created. And then to view that we can click on the little eye icon which says open drawing. If this is the first time you're opening the drawing, it's going to ask you what should we open it with. You can use any browser. I'm using Edge. It's just very fast. I don't use it for anything else. And you can see there is our drawing automatically ready to go. Right. So before we move on to any 2D elements, I just want to adjust the model slightly. So there's a few things we want to do. I'm just going to hide the rooms here. And we're just going to go back to a model view. So, you can see next to the camera, activate drawing, there's also activate model, which will remove any sort of uh hiding that's on the model. So, we're just going to hide the beams and spaces that they're out of the way. They can be they can be unhid by clicking on activate model. Right. So, the few things I want to do is adjust the door size and create a new door, which is going to be our sliding door here as well. So, I'm going to select this front door here, and I'm going to go to geometry materials. I'm going to go to parametric geometry. I'm going to go to the door modifier here, and I'm going to click plus. You can see it already adjusts the shape and size of the door. We're going to click on this little pencil icon, and we're going to leave it as single swing left. That's fine. I'm going to leave the height, but I'm going to make the width about 800 mm. This is just my preference. Just makes it a bit smaller and more reasonable. Then I'm going to do the same for the windows. I'm going to go select the window geometry and materials parametric geometry window. Click plus there. And we're going to leave it as is just to make it a bit smaller. All righty. And now we're going to add in an additional door. So I'm going to click on the door tool. I'm going to open up the grid. I'm going to say duplicate. We're going to rename this to door type [Music] two. And I'm just going to call it sliding. And we say okay. I'm going to make sure it's selected. I'm going to say close. And I'm just going to say shift A. And we can place it wherever we like. I'm going to put it there. I'm going to select this door and then add a door modifier. Select it. I'm also going to make this width 800. And we're going to change it from single swing left to sliding to the left, which I think is appropriate. We're going to say finish editing. And you can see it's adjusted the door there. All right. Okay. So, from here, we're going to go back to drawings and documents. We're going to go to drawings, and then we're going to select my story plan, and we're going to say activate drawing. You can see our drawing has been activated. There is our adjusted door over there. If I just hide the space, there's our adjusted door. And here is our new sliding door as well. Okie dokie. And just remember to save as you go along. From here, we're going to move on to annotations. So, we're first going to select the annotation tool on the left hand side there. And we're going to start with our dimensions. We're going to click on this little drop down arrow on the top left. And we're going to select dimension. And then we're going to place our 3D cursor, which I'm using shift and right click, or you can use the 3D cursor tool. And I'm just going to say add. You can see it adds in as a polyline curve. To get out of this, we can just say tab and then tab. And you can see now we have a preview of the dimension line. And then I'm going to edit this in a specific way. Instead of pressing tab, I'm going to change it from object mode and change it to edit mode. And this allows me to edit the vertices directly. So I'm going to select this bottom one and say gy. Make sure your snaps are on. So gy to snap it to the bottom. and we're going to do openings, then rooms, and then we're going to do uh overalls. So, I'm going to say gy and snap it to the edge there and say e to extend this dimension line. And then ey to get it to the end there. I'm going to grab these. I'm going to say gx gx and I'm going to say 400. I'm going to grab one of these and I'm going to say shift d to duplicate x and give it another spacing of 400. And now we're going to do the rooms or the spaces. And I'm going say gy snap it to the walls. Ey. Then I'm going to grab the skin. Shift DX400. And then we just grab the bottom vertices vertex and say gy and snap it to the bottom. Then we grab one of these. And we're going to just do the horizontal dimensions. So shift D to duplicate X R for rotate 90. Then GZ gy rather. and then gy 400. And we'll do the same thing because we don't have any openings here. I'm just going to do the uh the rooms/ spaces and then we're going to do the overalls. So, I'm going to grab this. I'm going to say gx ex. I'm going to grab this and say shift dy 400. And we're just going to do the overalls. GX. So that's for the outside area, EX. And then that's for the actual office itself. And then just one more time, shift dy 400. And we'll just do an overall gx. Then we're just going to grab one of these again and say shift dx. Snap it to the edge here. GX - 400. And we'll do the same thing as we did on that side. So we'll do openings ey e to get that 800 ey to the window ey there and ey to the end. And then we just grab another set of vertices and shift dx - 400. And now we can do the walls. Ey to the edge. And then we grab it. We're going to do the overall. Actually, we have the overall on that side, so we don't necessarily have to do it again. I'm just going to grab one of these and say shift dy. And we're going to do the bottom set. gyus 400. We'll do the same thing. We're going to do the walls and spaces. And then we'll do the ovals. So, e ex. And then we'll grab this last set. And I think we are good there. All right. So that is all our dimensions. So I just press tab to go back into object mode. And from here we can just use some normal lines. So with annotation tool selected, we're going to click on this drop down again. And I'm going to select the the line tool. And then here where it says untyped, there are a bunch of predefined preset lines that are automatically loaded when you use the IC4 demo project. So we're just going to start with I'm going to use a fine line. And I'm just going to mark the slope of the of the ramp. And I'm just going to say shift A or add. And then you can see we've got a polyline. I'm going to grab that. Say GX gy ey. And then we're just going to press tab tab again to get into object mode. And then we're just going to do the overhead line of the of the upduck roof. So here where it says fine, there's also a dashed line. So we can add that in. We can say add and then grab the vertices. Say gy. Make sure it lines up. Say e x. I'm just going to grab these two and say gy. So it lines up with the edge. Gy. I'm going to grab these two and say gx. And then we can just press tab and then tab again to get into object mode. All right. Okay, so we can move on to text and annotation tools. So with the annotation tool selected on this dropown, we're going to go to text and there's only uh there are a number of types, but we're going to start with untype, just a normal dump text. I'm going to place my 3D cursor at the ramp and say add and we're going to use this as a label for our ramp. So I've got the vertices, this little empty that represents the text selected. I'm going to say gy. Just bring it up a little bit. And then with this selected, I'm and the annotation tool selected, I can click edit text, which is this little button here. Or I can press shift E. And then it'll give me a little pop-up that I can edit so that um I can change the text. So I'm going to select the center alignment for the text there. And I'm going to change this from text to ramp. And I'm going to change the font size from regular to small. And say okay. And that's basically how you add text. The next thing we're going to do is a leader line. So instead of text, we're going to go there's a thing underneath it says leader. Leader line is basically a text object with a line attached to it. We're going to add it in here. So it aligns with the column there and say shift A or just add. You can see that there it's a line at the moment. I'm going to press tab twice. Or if we can see on the top right hand side here, we can just go to IC object mode. We can see how the text is arranged. And then from here we can just say tab tab to edit it again. Let's say gy now that we know the direction. Let's say gx. Let's say gy. I just want to line it up so it doesn't overlap with any of our dimensions. And then I'm just going to say e and x and just bring it across by maybe 300 minus 300. Then we're just going to say tab tab. And I've done it the absolute wrong way around but it's fine. We can definitely save this. So we just say tab tab. And we swap these around. Grab this edge over there. Grab that edge. GX and say gy. So it aligns with the column there. And then gy gx gxus 300. And then tab tab. And there's our text. And now if we want the text to be on the left hand side, we will edit it like we edited the text object. We click edit text. And here we can change the font from regular to any size we want. I'm going to make it small again. And then we're going to change the orientation. So how this box alignment works is essentially it's the origin of the text, the origin point. It isn't the side that the text sits on. So if I want it to be on the left hand side, the origin has to be on the right. It's not quite too intuitive, but it works quite well. And then we're just going to say okay. And from here we actually want to change this from a dumb leader line into a smart text. So there's a way we can do this. We can go to our object information. And then here at the bottom of object information, there's this thing called product assignments where you can create a relationship between the 2D text object and a 3D object. And we click on that little pencil icon and there will be a eyropper tool. And for this we can just select the column and you can see it's been selected and we can say tick. And then the next thing we want to do is tell the text object to go look for the information inside of the column. So if we select the text object and we say edit text, we can adjust this by saying okay cool. What we wanted you to do is go look for. So we add two squiggly brackets and say we want to look for the name which is in the attributes of the column. And then we close it off with squiggly brackets and we say okay. And you can see that our smart text has updated automatically to say column. So where's that information? If we select the column and we go to its attributes, we can see okay cool its name is column. So quite cool. You can make take a dumb text and turn it into a smart text. All right. So moving on to the next thing. Bonsai is quite amazing now in that it has quite a few default text objects and libraries available for you. So the next one we're going to do are space tags or room tags. We're going to make sure we have the annotation tool selected. We're going to click on this dropown. We're going to go back to normal text. And then instead of using just the untyped, you can see there's a whole bunch of different tags here. We're going to choose the space tag. So for this, we just need to select the spaces themselves. Going to go to my because I've hidden them. I'm going to go to my drawings documents and I'm going to say activate drawing. So then we'll be able to select our spaces. I'm going to select both of them. And what I could do is add the tag or because I have the spaces selected, I can click on bulk tag. I've got my space tag selected. I click on bulk tag. And you can see we've added in a tag for each space that already has uh a relationship aligned with that space. So you can see it's grabbing the names. This one's office and that one is bathroom. And then there's additional information that we can add into it. So for this we're just going to add this information to the space directly and we're not going to attach the tags. I'm going to select um this first space. We're going to go to object information and we're going to come down to quantity sets. And you can see here there is a custom Q2O. There's an IC4 base quantities. We're going to change this to the Blender version just because it works a little bit better right now. And what this will do is create quantities to pull into that tag. So, we're going to click on perform quantities take off. And you can see mine is in square meters. It's 9.41 square meters for this area. We can do the same for the bathroom. And then the last thing where it says none there is the description. I normally use that for a floor surface. So, we go to object information. We go to attributes. We click on that little edit thing and then here in description you add in what you want it to be. So maybe I want this to be timber and we can say save. And you can see it's been updated there. And for the bathroom we do the same thing in description. I'm just going to say tiles. Click save. And now I want this to say me squared at the end of this. So I'm going to select the actual tag itself. And remember this is also a type. So these are types are shared even if the information is different. And we're going to say edit text. And then here at the bottom, I'm just going to type in M24 me and say okay. And now you can see it says office timber 9.41 m squared. And the same change has happened here even though the information is different. So quite a lot faster, much better. Right. So next thing we're going to do is a door and window tag. We make sure we have the annotation tool selected. Text object. Instead of space tag, we're going to select the door tag. I'm going to select the two doors that I have in the scene. Just hide my spaces and my floor. Make sure we have our doors selected. So that one and that one. And then again, we're just going to say bulk tag. And that's automatically going to create a tag for each of these doors. Essentially, I'm just adjusting them so a bit more centered. If we select the door tag, we can look at what information it's pulling. I'm going to click on edit text. And we see it's looking for the type name and then the name of these objects. That's totally okay. We're just going to say okay. I'm going to select the door type here. And I'm going to go down to my type product and I'm actually going to change the type name just to door type two. Just take away the sliding information. So we can see there's door type two. I'm going to change this to sliding. And then you can see it just says door type two. And at the bottom the name is door. We could also adjust that. That can be adjusted in the attributes of the door itself. So if we say edit here, we can change the name to door two for instance and say save. And we can change this door's name to door B1 and say save. And we see we've adjusted and added in a door tag for both doors. And then the same thing for the windows. We can select this window and that window where it says door tag. We can just now select window tag and we can say bulk tag. And if we bring it in, it's a little bit more visible. And you can see if we say edit text, we can see what it's looking for. It's just looking at the name. That's perfect for us. We can select this window. And in attributes, we can say edit and change the name to window one. They save. And then here, select the other window. We can change this to window two. Let's say save. Then we just want to see what that all looks like. We're going to go back to drawings of documents. We're going to say activate. We're going to say print. Once it's printed at the bottom, we're just going to say view the drawing. And there you can see these are the default window and door tags and there that is the space tag and that is what everything looks like in its appropriate place. Okay. Next we're going to do are our IFC sanury items. So we're going to go to our project overview. We're going to click on project setup project library. And then by default there's a bunch of libraries available for you to go to. We're going to go to the furniture library. We're going to click on the type product. I'm going to bring this out and we're going to go to sanitary terminal type and click on that. From here, I'm going to choose a at the bottom here, newer toilet with system. I'm going to choose a small basin, and I'm going to choose the 75 by 900 shower. Essentially, you can see those has been added to my types there. We're going to go out of that. We're going to click on our finish tool. We're going to hold and click and then we're going to select sanitary terminal tool. And then we're going to click on our launch type manager. And you can see each of these items has loaded. So, we're going to start with the toilet. Make sure it's active. Say okay. I'm going to say shift A. It's going to load in a preview. You can select it. I'm going to say rotate Z 180 and then gy and just kind of center it on the space. Then the next thing is going to be the basin. Select the basin, close it, say shift A, click, place it, select it, rotate it. In this case, minus 90. Say GX and GY. and then just center it where it belongs. And then the next one is the shower. Say shift A to click. I'm just going to say GY so it lines up with the walls and that it's not in the way. And then fourth, these three. If we want to just see what it looks like in 2D, we need to go back to drawings documents. And then you just need to activate the drawing. And you can see the 2D representations of these objects have been loaded. Cool. So now we're going to go on to our IC grids. We're going to go to our project overview. We're going to go to spatial. And inside of spatial, if we scroll to the bottom, there's this things that says grids. And we can click on add grids. If we zoom out, we can see that we we've got a 1, two, three grid and an ABC grid. And from here, we just need to adjust these objects essentially. So, I'm just going to select the multi-object tool. We're going to select the grid itself. And we're just going to make sure here that our grids are not locked, so we can still edit them. Select that grid again. Press tab. And then we're just going to bring it in so it aligns with our drawing. So, I'm just saying GX, and then snapping, pressing tab. I'm going to grab this one, say GY. Bring it in to align with our wall there. Grab this one, say GY. Snap it there. Move these across. GX. ey just to the edges. And then we're just going to select each one and press tab and just bring in the vertices to adjust. Grab them gy. Grab it. Tab gy. Snap. Then c it gx to the edge. and B tab GX to the edge. Right. And then we can zoom back in. And we want to adjust these just so that they don't overlap with the uh dimensions. I'm going to say GX and bring it out by about the same 400 or perhaps 500 and press tab. And then just make sure it's on on both sides essentially. So tab GX GX - 500 tab. Same thing for these. So tab and we just align it with the others. Tab and then a tab gx gx tab. And then with the one two three tab gy - 500 y 500 tab and then select each of these and just adjust them. Tab gy tab. All right. Once they're in the correct position, you can lock it again and you can go to drawings documents and when you reactivate it will show a 2D representation of the grids as well. So you can see there are grid lines and they are loaded in. Pretty straightforward. The last thing we want to adjust are the materials. So we're going to first select our wall. We can be in the wall tool or we can be in the multi-object tool. Doesn't matter. We're going to go to the geometry and materials tab. We're going to go to object materials and we're just going to deal with the standard materials that come with bonsai. I'm going to click on this little enable editing button, the little pencil icon. And essentially we need to give the layer set name a material name and that will indicate what the hatch pattern is of that material. So there's a few standard ones and one of them is brick. So it's got to be lowerase letters B R I C K. If we click tick there, it's been adjusted and it's been saved. So that layer is now brick. And to see it, we go to drawings and documents, activate, print, and then view. And you can see that the outside wall has changed from a black to a brick. But because the internal walls are still their own separate type, they also need to be adjusted independently. But we can adjust that to be something else. We can maybe make that concrete. So we select that wall, go to geometries and materials, come to object materials, click on this little pencil icon. You can see by default they're not named. And I'm just going to give it the name concrete. Let's say tick. We're going to say back to drawings and documents. Activate print and view. And then you can see we have a concrete internal wall. And those can be a changed vice versa. It's done by type generally. Okay, that's it for now. Uh actually editing the walls and hatch patterns and the materials and creating your own types will be included in a later video where we talk about CSS. All right, hope that was helpful. Thanks for watching everyone. I hope that was helpful. Just a heads up, I have a coffee page if you would like to support the creation of these videos. Coffee supporters get early access to videos and they really help create the content. So again, thank you. Awesome. Thank you everyone. Bye.