In this video, I wanna teach you how
to go from this boring 2D plan to this really cool-looking one that has
lots of depth, grain, and texture. It's a simple process. It's a quick tutorial here, but there's a
lot of specific steps that you can learn. It's like tips and tricks that you can
apply then to this type of drawing or many other different types of drawings. I got this reference
from MNMA, MNMA Studio. Uh, kinda hard to say, but I mean, they
pop on my Instagram feed every now and then with these super interesting plans. It's most likely done in a 3D modeling
software with a rendering engine. But I thought, "Man, maybe I can
translate this into Photoshop and make it simpler so that we can kinda iterate
and play and, and learn from this." So that's what I did, and I
wanna show you in this video. So be sure to go to their Instagram
profile, and then look at all of these amazing references and, and
see with more detail what they do. So here in Illustrator,
I have a very basic plan. This is from Terra e Tuma Arquitetos
Associados, an amazing house as well. I'll leave all of the, the links in the
video description for you to check out. I just... You can do this like
in the BIM software, obviously, Archicad, Revit, or in a 2D drafting
software, AutoCAD, Rayon, even. And I like to bring this into Illustrator
just to do some line refinements and a little bit of tweaking here and there. But this step here of
Illustrator is not mandatory. You can come directly from your BIM
or 2D software, 2D drafting software. But I like to use it in Illustrator
so that I can actually then split this into, for example, what
is cut elements on the walls. We're gonna be using this in Photoshop. This is very important to have separated. And then all of the lines and do
a little bit of treatment so that all of them, they have this very
even and, and uniform thickness. So you can skip this step, but the only
thing that you need to have is like a separate document, a separate PDF
file, or a separate P- PNG image with the cut elements, like being the walls. Because you need that to apply
the shadows and everything else. So you can, you can
export them separately. You know, a complete plan and a
PDF or just a PNG of your walls. I'm gonna be doing this from
Illustrator, which is easier. If you do, you can just follow
the same steps, or then we're gonna go to Photoshop right now. So here in Photoshop, I'm gonna
create a new file, a new document. I'm gonna make the width the
same, and height the same size as my Illustrator composition. You here use whatever resolution, whatever
size you're coming from with the PDF. For example, if it's an A4, an A3,
so on and so forth, so that you don't change the scale here in Photoshop. That's very important. Like, we want this to be up to
scale at the end of the day. So yeah. So for me, a 4K resolution. And then I'm gonna come here
to File, and Place Linked. And I like to place a linked. For example, let me do, uh, this base
plan here in Illustrator, the .AI file. Crop to... I'm gonna change it
to Media Box so that it kinda, it counts the, the entire document
and not just what's inside it. And so I like to place it linked,
as I was saying, because then I can come here in Illustrator, for
example, move a wall or change something, add a new detail, hit Save. Go to Photoshop and that's
linked, updated automatically. I mean, this is the best of both worlds. If you do place links with PDF, you can
always then update that PDF, save it. It should also update here in Photoshop. Okay, so with the PDF in here
already placed in your Photoshop file, first things that I like to
do is just start organizing my file. You know, right click here and just
make it this, a striking color just so that we know that this is the base
and everything's gonna go below it, or a few things are gonna go above it. And well, if you look at the reference,
uh, the most striking part of the reference is, are the shadows, right? Those soft shadows. And so for that, we need the wall. So I'm gonna come here to Illustrator,
select all of them, do Control + C and do Control + V over here in
Photoshop, and I'm gonna, I'm gonna paste that as a smart object. And if you do have that PDF with the
walls separator, just place it above here. Make sure that this is an,
a smart object as well. So let me align it very roughly,
um, more or less like this. Photoshop is very forgiving. We don't have to be extra precise. So all right. So you're gonna have walls and
you're gonna have a, the plan. So I'm gonna place this. Let me just rename this to long shadow
and place this below the base plan. And so with that selected, go here to
filter and then blur gallery, this is the, the important part, and then path blur. You can see that that creates our shadow. I'm just gonna move this
to the direction I want. I'm gonna be pretending that the
sun is on the top right corner. Then you can change
this based on the plan. Like, each plan will have, like,
a maybe a better shadow that kinda tells the story of the space. So for me, I think something like
this, and then you can see that the shadows are going both directions. So if we go to the settings
here and go to centered blur and deactivate it, there we go. So going only on the
direction that we need. And we could then play with the speed. We can tell how, how far
these shadows are gonna go. So something more or less like
this, but it's the taper slider that makes it look soft and really good. I found that 70%, some- them,
something like that, is a value that works for this style. But you can always play with
it and test different values. And before clicking okay, something
that I like to do as well is just go to field blur, enable it. It's something subtle, subtle, but
I think it does make a difference. Like, it, it takes a bit of that, that
kinda marked shape that we have and softens it a bit, and then I'm gonna do
high quality over here, and then hit okay. Okay. It's already looking much better,
but obviously we're gonna, we're gonna get there, right? So the second thing that we... If you
look at the references, kinda makes sense, is that it's not pure white. Uh, kinda like pretending that
this is a photo, a top-down photo of, like, a paper maquette. So it's something, like, warm,
like, off-white, and we can do that. So let me just create a new solid color
over here, down here, solid color. With the hues around the
number 30, 30-something. You don't have to be too precise here,
something like You can make it more yellow or more orange, something like 30. The saturation goes
between four and eight. I think this is a good value so that
it's not pure white or not too saturated. And then the blackness
values, something like 70, 75. You can always come back here. Since we're creating a color for you, you
can always come back here and tweak this. I'm gonna pump the
saturation a bit, like six. There we have it. And then obviously place
this below everything. So we're starting to get there. Okay, amazing. Now, if we look also at the
references, so this is maybe, like, a clay render that they did. There's always, uh, like, some rooms
are darker than the others, so that we're drawing attention to the spaces
that we kinda want to, to make it feel more open and more lit up. And so we c- can create a new layer above
everything here, but below the base plan. I'm gonna call this one Darker Areas. And with a selection tool, like the
polygonal lasso tool or even the marquee tool here, we can start making selections. And it doesn't have to be too precise. I mean, since we're drawing this below
the base plan, uh, the walls are gonna hide everything, so more or less. And then with a brush, so shortcut B,
I'm gonna make it more big, somewhat big, but this is just a basic round
brush with the hardness set to zero here and black as the color. I'm gonna do an opacity of 10,
and I'm gonna start painting, like, very, very subtle. It cannot be too harsh,
or else it will look odd. If you end up creating, like,
these harsher lines, you can always grab the eraser and just
delete it so that it's very soft. And so you do this for every space
that you think should have a bit more shadows, like corners, kinda emphasizing. Then be sure to just take off
the-- any excess, any spillovers. So I'll catch you in a, a little bit. I'm just going to do these spaces
and show you the before and after 'cause it does make a difference. Okay, so this is the before and after. Subtle, but I think it
does make an impact. And then if we think about it,
like, no shadow, like in the real world, no shadow really in a
photo is a hundred percent black. And we can kinda, uh, tap into that,
into that principle of, like, shadows not being too black to try to make
this a little bit more realistic in the way that, that it can. So for example, with the long
shadow here, we can double-click on it and go to Color Overlay. So this, these are the blending options. If, if we apply something like a blue, not
too saturated, but not, like, too dark, something like, more or less like this. Click OK. So Normal a hundred percent. We start to get, like, these,
uh, bluish shadows, which make a little, little bit more sense. And again, we're placing this below the
place-- the base plan, so it doesn't show up any, like, blue actually cut elements. It doesn't show up. And we can do the same thing
for the darker areas here. We can go inside, just make a
color overlay here, and make sure that it's the same blue. Something subtle, but it starts to, like,
add complexity into this, to this drawing. And then if we go to the reference
and study a little bit more and kinda see that this is maybe a clay render. Th- th- there's a sun
hitting these, uh, 3D walls. The, the sun will hit the wall. That will m- most likely be white
or just, like, a, a clay color, and generate a little bit of light bounces. So these areas on the walls here, they
become like, like highlights, you know? So this helps to even, like, make
sure that this feels 3D-like. There's a little bit of depth in here. And so the same thing, I'm gonna create
a new layer, call this Bright Areas. And with a selection tool, I'm
going to start creating a few selections to help me guide this
large brush that I'm gonna paint. And instead here of using black, I'm
gonna use white, but even like a, like a warm white, something like off-white. So that al- also taps on that teal and
orange type of, um, color composition. So something subtle. Dab a little bit. Use, like, a very low opacity, and always
then erase these edges so that does look very soft and very, like, rendery-like. So I'll catch you in a little bit. I'm gonna do these and, and fast-forward. Now, here I'm doing only with the walls,
but you could, for example, to tweak this and make it your own, do with furniture,
with what's actually, like, maybe more solid and not chairs and stuff, but, like,
um, countertops and so on and so forth. So up to you. Like, there's so much possibility. Once you understand the concept here,
I mean, you can take it to many places. I- I'm just trying to follow the
reference as close as possible so that we can incorporate and learn from this. And then obviously reference is just a
starting point, and if you're gonna be publishing this online, using this for
an online portfolio, Instagram post, and so on, I really encourage you guys to
make it your own and tweak this further and kinda give it your own personality
so that it's not a straight copy. We're always using references to
learn, always crediting the references, of course, but then taking this and
kinda using to... for our own personal style, our own portfolio, right? Okay, so this is subtle, as you
can see, but before and after. It does make a lot of difference,
and it kinda creates the highlights. It kinda... It draws our eyes to
specific parts of the plan that with just if I disable both of them,
this, this is good, but it's just much more flat than, than with this. So I have here a dirt cut area that's,
like, with the magic wand, I can just select this with the base plan selected. Come down here and create a new solid
color, and then start from this color and just grab the blackness values here,
and then just go down a little bit. We then have this marked area
as, as if this is just a, a cut, kinda semi-buried place Awesome. Now, this is starting to look really good,
but it's still a bit too digital for me. And one thing that I always like to do,
and then the reference since it's like a clay render, sort of, uh, like a rendered
image has, is a little bit of grain, you know, a little bit of texture so that it
breaks up a little bit of this flat feel. And so if I come here to the base
blend, select the m- topmost layer, and with the window adjustments
enabled here so that we have this window, I come here to the grain. This is a new adjustment in Photoshop. You can always do grain manually,
but this one has three sliders. So if I just enable the amount, I
can play with the size of the grain, I can play with the roughness. So something like more or less, uh,
default, but a subtle grain makes a lot of difference in my opinion. So before and after. Now, an extra thing that it can do
is that, for example, I'll, I'll come here, I'll create a new layer, and
I'm gonna call this one blend area. And if I do a quick selection, something like this, and if I just
paint it with any color, really, it can be white, it can be black. And if I then take the fill out of it
so that there's nothing in it, but then if I go to the blending options and do
color overlay and find that off-white, you know, not completely white, but
just a little bit yellow, and take down the opacity a little bit, like
a five percent, and do, for example, like an inner shadow like this with... Let me zoom in. So distance set to zero, but then with
the size, I play with possibly the max here because of the, the size of this
document, and play with the opacity, maybe like, like seventy percent to start with. It's a bit too much, but w- then we can
always play with the opacity of the layer. Like we start to kinda highlight
a few areas of interest, sort of like it's a, it's a paper on
top of a paper kind of effect. Now, two extra things that we can do here. We can then tap on this whole lightness
versus darkness values, and then create a new layer on top of everything
here, but always below the grain so that it also is affected by it. And then with the gradient, and I
like to use the classic gradient here with, for example, the first one. I can then start to add like lightness
versus darkness sort of values here, something more or less like this. You can always play with it later. But if I then change this to, let's
say, soft light, and then re- obviously reduce the opacity a bunch, you can
start to intensify a few things. Light coming from this way,
shadow being generated this way. But then going deeper on the whole
bluish shadows and orangey highlights, we can then add a color balance so that
we make the shadows bluer like this. You know, negative on the cyan and
plus on the blue here, and then the highlights a little bit like this. So this is the before This is
the after, before and after. Something, again, very subtle. Now one last, last trick here
is how to get this type of tree. I even left it to the
side here on Illustrator. You can then just use a circle, a
bunch of lines, and, like very simple, and then just go to Effect, Distort
and Transform, and then Roughen. And then play with the, the
values here, something very low, and also change to smooth. And okay, there you have it. So it's like wobbly, bubbly, and then
if you just do a few versions, scale one, do one bigger, one smaller,
one more rough, one less rough. I mean, you get the point. So this is something that you can apply. This is something that
Illustrator does very well. And then if you go to Photoshop and
you think, "Man, this is a bit too dark for me," you can always then, on top
of everything but below the grain, for example, create a new levels adjustment,
and then play with the levels here. So something I sometimes like to
do is make sure that my highlights are aligned with the, the first
information of this graph. If I go past it, it will start to
blow out some areas, like here. But if I go just there, we still
have information, but make sure that everything is kinda bri- as bright as
it can be without losing information. Then play with the rest, kinda add
more contrast, less contrast, make it softer, make it darker as a whole. I like the levels adjustment a lot. And so with a few more tweaks,
this is the final result. Hopefully you learned something new here. If you did, be sure to leave a
like and subscribe to the channel. And I always like to bring these
references and just kinda study them, and saw that this was a good opportunity
to show you, like, long shadows, um, adjustments here and there, a little bit
of a brush, a little bit of Illustrator. So let me know what you
think in the comments below. I'll see you guys in the next video.