I've spent years teaching people to create 3D models. And this weekend, for the first time, I found myself wondering what's the point of doing all of this if AI is just going to be able to do it for you. And thinking about it now, I'm not sure that that's actually the right conclusion, but it was a serious thought that I was having because of the new version of chat GPT that came out last week, GPT6 Astra. Okay. And so last Friday, I saw the announcement that GPT6 Astra had come out and that it was significantly better at doing things like creating 3D models than previous versions. And so the first thing I saw was this Bench CAD testing that basically is a benchmark test for how well AI can do um 3D modeling. And honestly, like I hadn't even really heard of the test and so I was like, "Oh, that's nice. It's probably a little bit better." And then I went down and looked at some of the examples. And so the examples they were showing were ridiculous. So they've got this Blender model that they basically 100% created using GPT6 Astra. Um, and it created not only an awesome looking model, but also amazing renderings. And it was able to take this and send it over into Unreal Engine and actually create a fly-through animation in Unreal Engine, which by the way is something we're going to talk about more on this channel. But for me, this was a little bit overwhelming. And by the way, there's a really interesting more detailed post over on the developers.ai.com ai.com talking about how um they created this. That's definitely worth reading through because they talk through the actual process which I think is important to understand and we're going to talk more about that in the future. But for me, this video is more about what this means for us. And so I didn't really have a chance to test it until Saturday. And when I did, I was blown away by what it was able to create. So it basically created three different things for me. Um, I created a model using images in order to see how well it could do that without any kind of like additional information. I created a model using a floor plan image to test how well it could stick with accuracy. And then as a stretch goal, I gave it a complete set and I asked it to model an entire building from a set of construction documents. And I was blown away. Like this created three different models, two of which would have taken me hours in under 20 to 25 minutes each. I didn't do any prompting to kind of like dial them in or anything like that. The quality of the results that I was seeing was massively better than what I've seen in the past. And I had this thought go through my head, which is what's the point of me doing this anymore? Like what do what do we need me for? What do we need 3D modelers for at that point? And that thought kind of stuck with me and it still has to a certain degree, but I don't think it's the right thought. Now, I will say this is not perfect yet. Like the longer and more complex the project is, the more it kind of like drifts. And I think there's some things we can talk about on this channel to make that better. But overall, looking at this is something that's only going to get better, right? Like today is the worst that it will ever be at doing this. I kind of felt like I saw the writing on the wall a little bit and I didn't love that feeling. And so I guess where my brain went on this is the question like what does AI actually replace, right? Is it replacing professions or is it replacing tasks? Because like that's a huge distinction to make, right? Like is it replacing the things that we do dayto-day or does it replace the whole profession? And this kind of got me thinking about the process and like what does this technology actually replace? Because if you don't understand like what people are doing then you can't understand how this is going to affect them. And so like very high level and this is very high level but you've got a client or someone that wants something and then they communicate they go find somebody to do a design for them. They communicate their needs to somebody. And this is assuming this is something complex enough that even with the great ability of chat GBT to create like conceptual images and things. They still can't take it to like actual build, right? There's always examples inside of AI of things being made that can't actually be built. So I feel like in general there's always going to be a need for some sort of a specialist that understands how things are going to come together high level. Now I could be wrong about that, but in general in general, right? So, you've got a client, they want something, they find somebody to design it, and they communicate their needs. That's meetings and phone calls and emails and things like that, right? That's not the technical CAD stuff. That's communication. And then the designer takes that communication, interprets those needs, and they communicate a design that they think meets those needs. Now, that is kind of where the modeling process starts, um, and diagramming and other parts and pieces, right? That's where you're starting to create those models and trying to convey that. So that's an area where this this AI tool starts to get involved. But then after that, they communicate that design back to the people they're working for. And you get this kind of like feedback loop of, hey, here's kind of what I'm thinking. Do you like it? Do you not like it? Does it meet your needs? Does it not meet your needs? Yes or no? And then there's this kind of like iterative process. And that iterative process is more meetings and more models, more things to convey more information. And so again, like the meetings and the communication and the iteration is something that I don't think AI is nearly as close to replacing because there's a lot of communication and understanding of needs and things like that. Like it's a lot of stuff to filter through. Now, I could be wrong. Maybe that all gets replaced in 24 to 36 months, but somehow I doubt it's going to get quite to that point. Now, it could I could be wrong, but I'm just going to move on with that assumption for this video. And so, like once you get out of that iterative process and there's a lot of meetings and then there's meetings where you agree on a design or there's emails and things like that, well, then there's more communication with a builder, right? Because you've got the design, but you got to make sure it actually needs to be built. That's more meetings, more communication, more models, more sketches, more details, more things like that. This is where your accuracy gets super super important. So, because your accuracy is super super important, it's very important that the models themselves be able to do this in an accurate way that reflects the real world, which requires a lot of understanding. But that's more of an iterative process. Like imagine this, but with communication to a builder. It's the same kind of thing. iteration, iteration, iteration, and then finally the project gets built. Right? That's a very simplified way of looking at this. And the only reason I'm talking about this is because there's a lot more to the design process than just creating 3D models. Like looking at this, what this does is it takes that process of creating things in 3D that communicate that design and it makes it faster and more iterative. So, it feels like there is a piece of the design industry that needs to stay and these tasks that go into the day-to-day work are the things that are getting automated. Now, does that mean everyone's jobs are safe? I really do not think so because if you look at current projects right now, you've got projects, you've got a bunch of people doing a bunch of different tasks on an overall project. So, you've got all these things that need to be done, whether it's moving walls around or creating models or things like that. we've got people doing that. And so I think what happens here is I think that a lot of the doing of the tasks gets delegated to AI and you have less people that are managing the tools that are doing those tasks. So instead of having a person doing a task, you've got an AI doing multiple tasks and then you've got one person kind of overseeing that. But I don't think you ever like fully get rid of the people as a part of this. Now again I could be wrong um but just like looking at it conceptually this is how I think this looks at least in the short term is there are going to be the same number of tasks getting done right the profession remains but fewer people are creating the same output because they're using AI to do this and so I have always believed that I I don't know what AI means for us like it could take some jobs it could automate some things away things like that I think it definitely will, but I don't think it's going to take all of the jobs. If it does, we have even bigger problems. But I do think it's important to understand AI may not take all of the jobs. I do think the people that won't learn how to use this technology will be replaced by people that will. I mean, it's it's here and that kind of is what it is. So, based on that, what do we do? So I think the first thing is we have to be willing to keep learning and staying on top of what the developments are, what the technology can do. And I don't mean like sitting around like worrying about it and all of that. We just it's important to understand the capabilities. That's why I created this channel. And then the other thing is be willing to try new things. So if you have a thought and you're wondering could we automate this or something like that, go try it. Put it into AI and see what it does. and see what you can create and be willing to try and test those new things. And that's part of what we're going to do on this channel is how do we make this better? How do we make this faster? How do we incorporate this into what we do so that we're not left behind as this technology changes and develops? Cuz I think that's going to be extremely important. The most important skill set is going to be willing to be flexible, willing to try new things, and willing to stay on top of the things that are changing so that we can stay ahead of them. And so I don't think Astra or any of these models makes learning 3D models important, but it does change what we need to learn. Now, I'd love to hear from you in the comments down below. What do you think this means for us in general? And what do we do about it? Um, and I understand that some people like hate AI and don't want it to be around. And I understand that. I just don't feel like that's practical, right? Like it's here. So based on that, like what do we do? Um, how do you think we move forward? I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments down below. Please keep that discussion civil. I know it can be kind of a heated topic, but as always, thank you so much for taking the time to watch this, and I'll catch you in the next video.