BIM is landed on Blender. This is an exciting news because it means that you can start creating and edit your own BIM documents and files [music] using Blender. So without any subscription fees or any other editing tool for BIM Bonsai, it's a really powerful extension [music] for Blender that allow you to do a lot of BIM stuff. It used to be called the Blender BIM, but now it's an extension. So it means that you can install just one click. And I made already a video showing how to do the installation of Blender and Bonsai in only few clicks. So in this video instead we are going to discover together how we can start creating a building from scratch using BIM in Blender. Hello everyone. I'm Professor Reno and I have a BIM enthusiast. I've been using and teaching BIM since 2016. So I have a lot of experience in uh using this tool to create a lot of cool stuff including developing different workflow that can help fire protection engineering or other visualization of BIM for other purpose like serious game training and a lot of more cool stuff. You just need to go and check my latest research on this. If you never use BIM and you're wondering what is BIM, it stand for building information modeling. So the main difference between a 3D model and BIM is that BIM has a much more information associated to each item that you will find in a BIM documents. If we start embracing BIM, you will see this image from the B handbook third edition that actually shows us the BIM of a wall and in this case you can see that there is much more than the simple geometry in terms of parameter. If we see this website for instance is give us a beautiful so overview of what means to have a parametric model. So in this case you can see a parametric model can be really useful to reshape and rescale and change the full geometry of an element if he has been designed in a parametric way. But he has much more information that can be modified when we use building information modeling. Back in the day, I was telling my student that Openb was mostly to share information and exchange information with others. So, it was basically the equivalent of using a word to edit a document and then share a PDF with the rest of our colleagues. We all know that we are going to be capable to open a PDF using any free software. Now, you can of course modify PDF, but good luck doing it. If you want to do a lot of change, it's going to be a really pain in your neck. The software that I'm really excited to talk about today, it's called Bonsai. The good news about Bonsai is that is allowing you to use [music] OpenBIM to actually create BIM documentation from scratch. Yes, that's right. That's the first time actually that I've been using IFC to edit any BIM file from scratch. And in this video we are going to discover how we can easily do it together. So let's go on the Blender and let's learn together how we can use Bonsai to create our first building. So we are back in Blender. You can see that Bonsai has been installed because we have the BIM section here. If you're not sure if it's activated, you can always go to edit preference and [music] add-ons. You can see that in my case Bonsai is working. So let's go and close this part and start creating our first building. So the first things that I'm going to do is to select whatever is in the scene. You can see that we have a camera, cube and light. To select everything, we need to press A and then delete everything. So the first things to do to create easy file is to go here. You can see that we have the possibility to change IFC. I'm going to leave it to FC4 and I'm going to use the metric system because I don't know much about Imperial and I'm a rebel like in Star Wars. So, may the beam be with you. So, the next things that I'm going to do is to change the template. This is a really important step. I'm going to start using the demo template IC4 and it's going to give us a lot of IC object that we can use straight away to edit our building right here in the scene and create project and you can see that there are a lot of stuff that has been loaded in our project are basically the FC element that we are going to use later on so they are hiding behind the scene but we are going to be capable to use it in few click so you can see for instance there is a door, there are column, there are walls. So let's go and have a look what we can do to use them together. The other things that I will really suggest you to do before starting otherwise it's not going to work. I tried it before especially if you use a PC like me with a limited keyboards. So you need to go here in edit preference then you go to inputs and then you emulate your numpad. It's not on my keyboards. If you have it on your keyboards, you're not going to have any issues. This is important because now for instance, if I press seven, I can have a visualization from the top and I can decide to change a visualization just pressing 1, three and seven. So the first things that we are going to do to create our new model is to create some walls. [music] So we are going to go here walls and if you go up here, you will see the possibility to select between different walls. So here for instance I'm going to select wall 300 then close this part. We are already on the top view. I'm going to then press other shift A or press here add. And now you will see that you have the possibility to draw with a poly line a wall. [music] So I'm going to set up for instance 10 m. Press enter. Then I'm going to go on the Yaxis [music] and press for instance 5 m. And now we need to close this wall. So you can either keep pressing 10 another key to lock this uh poly line. This is just to press X. So you can see that now it's only allow us to go back and forward. And I'm going to press here on the origin. So you can see that now we are basically really well aligned. And the other things that you can do is either press X now so we can shift and close it or another shortcut is to press shift C that means basically close. And you can see that now we have our external wall. I'm going to press enter and p they're already there in our scene. So what we can do now for instance if we want to change and uh we forgot that we didn't want a height of 3 m. So we can go here for instance press two. Nothing's going to happen because you need to refresh and you'll see that the height of the wall has been modified. So we are starting using some of the parameters available in bonesai. So I'm going to bring it back. Ctrl Z. And uh I'm going to actually show you that you have the possibility to have some other bonsai tabs. If you go to tools, you can see that there is a lot of more that you can start exploring. Please follow the documentation because you might get lost quite easily. To close this tab again, we press just N. So let's go back to the top view of this building and add something more. If we want to move in different part of the visualization, you press just shift and the central button of the mouse. For instance, if we want to create an interior wall, we need to go back to walls and select 100 mm wall. Close and either press add or as I mentioned the other shortcut is shift A. So let's start creating a interior wall where we want to have a bathroom. So, I'm going to select randomly here and then I'm going to show you how we can shift the wall to the exact location. I want this wall to be 3 m. Going to press enter and then I want to close it here. But before closing it, let's see how we can shift the wall to the location we want. So, the first thing I'm going to do is press enter to create the wall. You can see the wall. It's in the random location that I was mentioning before. Let's press seven. The way to do it is by grabbing the object. So, we need just to press G. And you can see that now we have the possibility to shift this BIM wall wherever we want. If we want to just move it on the Xaxis direction, we need just to press X. And you will see that it's going to be blocked only in the X direction. So, I'm going to put it right here close to the interior wall. Then I'm going to press G again. And in this case, I'm going to press X. And I'm going to set the location that I wanted originally. For instance, 2.5 m. So now we have exactly a wall at 2.5 m from the external wall. So now we can finish by go and creating the final partition here to close this room. So let's go back here. Wall it's 100 selected. Press add and select the center point of this wall. And now if we want don't want to have any issues here in closing the wall, we press X again. And now we have the possibility to close this room. So we already done uh a lot of work. You can see that the partition is not actually reaching the top like the exterior wall because they were only 2 m. Don't worry, we can select them. Go here and set 3 m and refresh. And everything is done in a parametric way. So let's go to the top view. Of course, we want to have some doors and windows for this uh space. Let's go and have a look how or we can add them. So, of course, we go to door. Let's unselect the object. Let's go to door. And you'll see that the only door that is loaded here, it's a single one. Don't be disappointed. Soon you will see how you can easily modify it using the parametric feature of Bonsai. And it's going to be the same for the windows. So, let's start with the simple door. And later we will see how to modify that. We need to go and select it inside. We need to click here, select it, close, then press add. And you'll see that you have the possibility to put the door inside for the inside walls or for the exterior wall. I'm going to randomly locate it and then show you how to put it to the exact location. For for instance, I'm going to put one door here and press S and you'll see that the door is there. So now let's assume we want to shift this door let's say 4 m from this edge. So let's go back to the top view and select [music] the door here. So I'm going to use once again a G to say grab and put it at the really end of the wall. You can see that there is something odd happening. Don't get scared. It's all normal. Now I'm going to press G again and move it 3 mters from this edge and press enter. You can see that the the movement has been working but the opening is not there inside the wall. You need just to press shift G and the magic is done. So you can see that now we have a nice door in the location that we want. And if you want to create a new door for the interior part of the house, of course, we need to follow the same steps. So let's go to door, select this door, and press add. And for instance, in my case, I'm going to locate it. Let's put it on this wall. So now you can see that we have also a door inside. and let's press es. The other things that I'm going to do is to create windows. You need to click and select door and then you go to windows and also in this case as I mentioned before we have only one single IFC windows but we can uh easily modify later [music] in few steps. So to add the windows, let's go seven. And you can see here, this is the offset from the bottom of the wall. And let's press add. And now we have the possibility to add a couple of windows here, here, and here. Let's press es. And if we go in the 3D view, you can see that the windows have been located where we wanted. So now that the windows are there as uh before we can move them around. So let's go and see how we can move this window for instance 6 m from this edge of the wall. So let's go to seven. Let's press grab and put it at the edge of this wall. G. Let's move it only on the X and put at the beginning of this wall. Now we press grab again and we press X. So we are going to shift only on this direction and press six. And as we did before for the door we need to press shift G and the location of the new door of the new windows is changed. So you can repeat this for all the other elements that you want to relocate especially door and window. What if we want to change the parameters of the door? So the beautiful things is that you have the possibility to change this parameter by selecting the door and going to geometry and material up here. Let's close all this tab and leave the only part that we are going to use. So we are going to go to parametric geometry door and you'll see no door found. You can press on the plus here and you'll see that now we are going to create a parametric different version of this door. The only things that it looks a bit buggy here in Blender is that you lose all the material that were associated in uh Blender visualization but I'll show you later how you can quickly put them back. And if we go here in door parameter, you can see that you can start changing all the dimension of these door classes. So in this case, whatever we apply for this door because they belong to the same IC door classes is going to be modified for both of them. For instance, if we make this door 1.2 wide and then we do finish edit, you'll see that the change has been applied for both of them. What if we want to have a different door here? Don't worry, I have the solution for you. We need to go and select door again and we go in this section again. You can see here that you can go and duplicate. So here we can start calling this IFC new class of door type two and let's go and use type two door. So I'm going to make sure that type two is selected here. Then I'm going to do add and add a new door here just in a random position. Let's press X. And now let's go and see what happen if we change the parameter of this class to door. So we need to go here in door again. We need to go to geometry and materials parametric geometry doors [music] and we apply door parameters here. And in this case, we are going to go and change the parameter here. I'm going to put it 0.8 really narrow door and finish edit. And in this case, you can see that the change that we apply to this IC door class 2, it doesn't affect this other class. So the other things that you can quickly do to change the visualization of this door, I found gray on gray pretty annoying to be honest. I'm going to show you my personal trick. You can basically go here and go to the material property in Blender of this element. So you can see that now nothing is there. If we go here, you can see that we have the material that were used for the door. So we can add the frame and you can see all of the sudden the door is going to be changing color. So if we want to create a completely new material for this door, we can go here and press duplicate. Now we have a completely brand new material. So if we start changing this color here, it's not going to affect this other frame here. And if we go for instance here in this element, we can go and check which brown we want and make it for instance lighter. And you can see because we changed the material for this class, it has been applied to this door but not to this door here. So what if we want to have a different panels and we want to start creating more fancier visualization for our FC elements. We can definitely do it. Let's add a new material here and select for instance frame one [music] and duplicate it. So it's going to beame frame two. And if you want you can call it panel. So now what we can do is to change for instance this color to a much wider version. Make sure that the door is selected. Then we go to edit mode and press on select faces and then we start selecting the faces we want to change color from both sides. Then we go to panel one and assign. And there you are. Now you have a better visualization of the door. And of course, if you don't like this color, you want a bit more gray, you can go and modify it and so on. So the final things that we need to add here is a slab for the floor. So let's go to seven and see how we can add a slab. Let's go back to object mode and select slab tool. So in this case is selected. I'm going to go and see what are the option here. There is only the 200 300's lab. As I mentioned before, you can duplicate and then later go and change the features of this lab and make it uh less thicker depending on what are your needs. So you're going to end up using once again the parametric feature of Blender. So I'm going to select 200 one and now press shift A. And now we have the possibility to use a poly line to define the perimeter of our slab. So I've already done a relatively good job. Going to press enter. And you can see that now the slab is here. And as before, we can select it and apply completely different material if you want to have a visualization that looks a bit prettier. Now let's go back to in here. So we can see the BIM property of this lab. So if we go to material style, you will see all the features of this lab. And especially in object materials, if you want to change the thickness, you need to press this pencil key and then go and change right here the thickness of the slab. I'm pretty happy with it as it is. The next step for us will be to quickly see or we can do a visualization of floor plan of this of this small project. So what we can do is to go here in drawings. So you can see that the drawing there is nothing here. So you can see here that it's complaining because the project has not been saved. Of course, we can do it in a few click, you go to file or pre and go to save IC project or just press Ctrl S and save your file. So, I'm going to save my file in one of my folders dedicated to Bonsai and call it test IFC. Now, we are back and you can see that now we have the possibility to create our first drawing. So, I want to have a plan view. You can see now there are zero of them. So I'm going to go to plan and then use as a reference point my story. So it's going to do a cut I guess at 1 m from the floor and press plus. So you can see now that we have been adding a new drawing here. If we want to see what's happening, we need to press on this camera view here. And you can see here the property of this drawing. It's pretty big. It's 50 m by 50. So definitely too big for us. I'm going to rescale it. Put it 10. Probably it's not two sides. Let's put 20 in this direction. And try to put 10 in this other direction. We need to change the location. So, we select it and press G. And we can center the house. And then we can either use some specific uh measurement by using X and move it in one direction, Y or the other direction. So it's really up to you. I just move it in one of the two direction. I'm going to select it again. Press G and select a relatively good center location. So let's see what this plan look like. So So to create a drawing, we need to have the plan selected. Then we go to create drawing and visualize the drawing. So you can see that we can start creating a really nice visualization of our floor. What if we want to change the orientation of this door? I'm going to quickly show you how to do it. I'm going to select this door. Going to press here to open the tabs of one side. And you can see here you have the possibility to flip. But now you can see that the door is not really well defined parametrically. He has been changing the position. Don't worry, we can press G and move the door in the position that we want it. So, let's press now Y to move it on the Y location. And it's not doing a great job because it's changing the part where I'm selecting. So, [clears throat] let's zoom in and show you the trick in this case. So, G again, then B. So, you can select the base where you're going to apply the movement. Then we are going to press once again Y. And then let's say that we want it in the really center of this wall. So the door has been changed. If we go in the geometry, we are not going to see the doors, but we can see that the opening is as we wanted. I really hope that you enjoy this video. And if you want to be notified for the next video on Bonsai, BIM or any other exciting digital tool, you really want to subscribe to this channel. Press the bell. so you will get a notification. And as always, thank you for supporting this channel and see you to the next one.