There is a nasty bug which is happening when I use bonsai on a Mac Apple silicon nowadays and I thought to make a video and share this issue with you guys because thankful thankfully deal mold has helped me today to find a workaround until this issue will be fixed. Unfortunately, this happens so far only on the Mac, but we like he actually Dion narrowed down what might be the cause for that. And I'm going to show you uh this as well in case so in case if you are experiencing crashes when you are loading at the beginning any kind of of models then this might be something that could help you as well. So the first thing that if you try to open a model and it crashes model uh blender is crashing. So it starts from the scratch again you have to start again and you open it and again it crashes. That's my situation. Then the first thing you have to do is to load the model in advanced mode. So you go to open and you navigate to your uh mod uh folder with the model and then you choose the model. And here in this menu you have to check this checkbox enable advanced mode. You want to do that without that it will just go as usual in uh blender in bonsai sorry it will start uh try to load your model. Here we get some new uh some few more options to choose before we load the model and we can also choose how much of our model we want to choose. Like for example here we can just choose some IFC classes some types or whatever we can choose right or de composition maybe we want to load only one floor or something like that. All right now the issue that we narrow down to the problem um the troublemaker let's say it's this the geometry library. So you is it might definitely be worthwhile to give this a shot when you uh if you experience this. So nothing else was uh causing any problems for me but this. So here you have more options and the one that it works we discover that the the Blender crashes when I'm using this one. Everything that has included seagull by default we have a combination between seagull and open cascade and then we have different uh simple simpler or singular options like right we have open cascade seal and seagal simple so by default blender will bonsai will use this for me we discovered that seagull is causing the trouble so I have to use open cascade so using open cascade now I can open all the models and I'm so happy and grateful for that because now I can open and see the models because lately most of the models I was getting uh my hands on they were crashing Blender and that was not good because I couldn't do what I was supposed to do. Now I can use Open Cascade with this and I'm so happy. So, thank you very much, Dion, again for helping me with this. And I'm really looking forward for this bug to be um found and to be fixed so that then I can just open normally Blender. But if you encounter the same issue, this might be something that could work for you. So after that, you just uh click on load everything. uh and yeah in my case before uh trying that I was all uh also trying to load just a part of some different classes and there were some classes where it was crashing and some not. But yeah this the geometry library seems to be a real issue. The seagull geometry kernel seems to be a real issue for for a Mac. This is not happening on Linux and on Windows as far as I'm concerned from trying uh myself in the past on my work computer and uh then from from other people who are using Windows and Linux. Okay. All right. I hope this is helpful and if you encounter this, if you ever encounter this issue and this has helped you, leave me a comment and let me know about that. Thank you so much for watching and I'll catch you up in the next one.