What's up guys? Justin here with the AI essential. So in today's video, we're going to check out GPT Images 2.5 and see if it's as good as Open AI is saying. Let's go ahead and just jump into it. So you can see all of this more in depth by going to their blog post on the new release, which I'll link to in the notes down below. I just want to look at some of the main claims about this tool, and then we're also going to test them to see how much better this new model is. So, first off, scrolling down, I [clears throat] mean, it's obviously great um when they say that they've reduced image generation latency by up to 50%. Um, meaning that your images are going to be generated more quickly. I'm not 100% sure if that means that the images or up are up to 50% faster or if it's something less than that, but improvements to speed are always desired cuz I feel like I'm doing a lot of waiting in between different image iterations. So, definitely happy to see that. Okay. And so these next claims are a little bit difficult to verify um because of just the words that they say, but um I mean generally speaking, this is supposed to be better at working from reference photos and your lighting and your textures are supposed to be more natural and more like realistic. Um again, that's very difficult for me to test, but I mean it's supposed to be better. I mean the example images they're showing are really cool. So, like this room right here where you can take this room and just adjust it so that the bed's made. Notice how there aren't a whole lot of changes to the rest of the model going on, which has been kind of our issue in the past. Right? They've got some other great examples in here as well. Right? So, if you kind of move this back and forth, you can see how um there's very little change in the background around this dog when this dog gets the costume put in here. So, um this should do a better job of recognizing those things and changing them without adjusting the rest of your image. Okay? And so this next one is huge for me because this is really what I'm using this for, right? So basically they've improved the ability of the editing function inside of the tool to only change the things that you ask it to edit. So it's supposed to keep all of these elements more fixed when you do those different edits. And you can see that in these example models. We're actually going to test this in a little bit um to see how well it actually works. But you can see how that little like drift that you used to get is not supposed to happen anymore. Um, and if if that's the case, that is a massive deal because one of the biggest complaints I've seen about AI images is they change your model. So, if this can only edit what you tell it to, that would be a massive step forward. Okay. And then this last one is really one of the biggest things for me because I I if you've done image rendering recently um in images too it did a really good job of allowing you to make edits but then what would happen is as you went through multiple different turns or multiple different iterations you would start getting noise in the images and um things like that. You'd get some camera drift and some other things too but specifically the noise was a huge deal. like you'd edit it and then you'd start getting noise in your textures. You can see how right through here, this is actually going through and this is editing this image and it's only changing these. It's not changing everything else. So again, we're going to test this. But yeah, if you can go through and you can progressively edit images, that is a massive, massive deal because what we were dealing with is after like three to four turns and all of a sudden you get this noise pattern inside of anything that's on your wall, it just starts to not look very good. So, if they've truly solved that or made that better, that is a massive, massive deal. And we're going to test that. And just like selfishly as a YouTuber, um having it be better at understanding visual instructions and do better with those would be a huge help for me, specifically if it can handle more complex things, including transparent backgrounds, cuz that was always kind of a pain for me. You'd tell it to remove that and then it wouldn't do a super good job and all of that. So, if this is truly able to create things and then remove the backgrounds and follow instructions better, again, that makes a massive difference for someone like me that's creating graphics and things like that that I then take into Photoshop or that kind of thing. And then finally, and to me, this is more just a fun one, maybe less something that I'm actually going to do, but they've got a new sketch feature which allows you to sketch something and then use it as like a visual guide of where something goes and things like that. So, um, honestly, I'm probably not going to use that to give visual references, but it does seem like it would be kind of a fun way to really quickly indicate like, no, this goes over here or this goes over here or something like that. So, we'll play around with that as well. Okay. And so, the first thing I wanted to test was the ability of this tool to make those precision edits. And so, what I did is I had ChatGpt generate me an image of a living room and then we went through and we made some different changes and adjustments. Okay? And so I can paste the whole prompt that I used in the notes down below the video, assuming my uh YouTube description doesn't get too long. Um it'll be at the very bottom after the timestamps, but basically the instructions were change the lime wash wall um to a walnut wood slat set. Right? So what that did is that took that image from this one to this one right here. So it did a pretty good job of swapping that out. Notice how in general things in the image aren't changing. Um, one thing I do notice though is I am noticing some kind of like lower resolution drift as we go on with this. So, that's definitely something to pay attention to, um, as we kind of move forward, right? But, I started off and it did a really good job of just like recognizing where that wall is, where the parts and pieces of that are and changing that even behind this plant and other things like that. So, from that standpoint, I think it did a good job. So, next step was going through and asking it to change the sofa upholstery. So, please change this from a cream colored upholstery to a forest green velvet and then don't change everything else. Right? So, that was kind of the next step. And so, moving on to that one. I mean, again, it did a good job there. Um, if I look around, I mean, I I can see little bits of detail changing in here. And I think it's probably the starkkest over here on this tree if we can see that. Right. So, notice how from this image and it's probably best to look at the first image right here. Right? This first image had more detail. And then as we kind of get a little bit further into this, notice how this does get a little bit fuzzier. Um, now the tree itself is not moving, but the detail level inside of this ch this tree is changing. Right. And then the next step is I just wanted to move a couple things around on the table. So I told it to go through and replace the blue vase um the ceramic vase with a small black abstract stone structure um and not do anything else. So, if we look at this, it's going to remove this and put it in here with um kind of an abstract structure right here. And it does that um really well. So, the swap itself is good. What I'm paying attention to though is I'm paying attention to the amount of noise that's generated from the beginning to the end. And you can kind of see it on the wood here. Um so, you can see how this is losing a little bit of detail, but it's not massively changing the way that like the rug looks, for example. So, I mean, from that standpoint, it's good. Um, it's still frustrating that that kind of like sneaks in, but notice how the camera itself is not moving, right? Just these individual elements are moving in here. So, I think that's definitely a positive improvement from what we've seen before. And then the last instruction I gave it was just to remove this bowl, right? So, we're just going to take the bowl. Um, remove only the shallow decorative bowl right here on the right side of the coffee table. And then it did that as well. And so then for the last prompt when we go through and look at this, it was to remove this bowl over here. Right? So you can see how these images are changing right here. And I can already see that the noise is still creeping in here, which I'm super bummed out about. Um so from that standpoint, that issue hasn't been fixed. And that is a huge issue if you were making multiple edits across different [snorts] um different images. But we're going to test that more in depth in a second. And so in this case for precision editing, I'm going to put a asterisk in here. So the precision editing itself, in my opinion, is good, but the noise that's creeping in is a real problem. So now we're going to test the next claim, which we've already done a little bit, which is the multi-turn editing. And so basically what I did is I took this image and I took it across multiple different turns. And I just said, "Okay, I want you to take just this pillow and change the color of the pillow and nothing else." Right? And I ran it through eight different rounds of just changing the color of the pillow. And so I would say looking at the results. So if I kind of flip through these right here, right? And I just look at the different results, right? So [snorts] it starts off and it does a really good job of just changing the pillow. Like I'm actually impressed. I'm seeing a little bit of drift. So more than what they're talking about, right? I can see this image for example drifting up a little bit. So there is a little bit of drift in the space. It's not massive. It's something that a lot of people wouldn't notice. It is still there, but I do think it's a lot better than it was. Now, my complaint about this is it does a really good job of just changing the pillow, right? You can see how as I flip through these, like the pillow itself is definitely changing, but what you can see over time is you can see the quality of the textures degrading. Um, and that noise kind of creeping back in, right? And the sofa is probably the best place to look for this. So, if you look in here, right, if you look at the end versus the beginning, there's just a lot more like grainy noise in here. And this looks a lot less like um the upholstery that we had in there in the beginning and a lot more just kind of noisy, right? So if we look at this, this is very like uniform and it actually looks like that material. But then if we look at the end, you can see how that's kind of it's snuck in here. You can see the graininess is kind of snuck into the image on the wall from the beginning to the end. So notice how this starts off smooth and you can just see it kind of gets like spots in it as we go across these different images. So, the noise issue is unfortunately still an issue. And if we look at um the plants right here as well, notice how it's very visible in the plants, too. So, the noise issue in images 1.5 is not fixed, which is really a bummer because that was probably my biggest complaint with this model in general, and I was hoping that would be fixed in this version. So again, I'm going to have to drop another asterisk in here instead of um instead of a check mark because while it does keep the images generally in place, I think it does a better job of that, the noise is just such a big issue as you make multiple different edits and changes, and that doesn't seem to have gotten much better in my opinion. Okay. And so the next thing I wanted to test was the transparency handling and see how well it could handle something fairly complex. And so this one is a weird one to me. So um I mean basically the claim was that the model handles more complex layouts including transparent backgrounds. Um so to me that means that it should be able to handle removing a background and generating images without backgrounds and things like that. Now maybe I'm reading the claim wrong, but that was the way that I looked at it. So what I wanted to do is I wanted to test how good it was at creating something with a transparent background. And so what I did is I took something which I consider to be very difficult to mask out or to remove a background or to generate an image with a remove background and that would be something like this tree. Right? So I just had to generate an image of a tree inside of a house so that we could use this as an example and see how good it was at doing this. Now this was a very odd one to me because if I look at this right there's an option here to remove background. And so what I did is I just clicked on it and it just says remove the background from the image. Keep all foreground subjects unchanged and fully intact with clean smooth edges. Make the background transparent. Right? So a fairly simple set of instructions and I found that it struggled with this set of instructions. And maybe I'm testing the wrong thing here, but this was very strange to me. So this worked for like 4 minutes and 24 seconds the first time I tried it. And I think I had it on GBT sol the first time um on medium effort. So I just had it set right here. Um and so what it did is it went through and you can see how it struggled. It generated multiple different images with a checkerboard image on the background instead of actually creating a transparent PNG. Right? So um obviously I mean I've had it do this before where instead of actually generating the transparent image it doesn't. Right? And so it actually caught it this time. So, if you look at the way it kind of like reasoned through it, you can see how it caught it and it was like, "No, this isn't the right thing." And it generated a new image, right? Download the transparent olive tree PNG. So, if I click on that, right? So, this PNG does have a transparent background and it went through and it generally masked this out fairly well. remove the background on a lot of these things. But like overall, if you look at it, like there's things in here um where it's masking out and making parts of this image transparent that shouldn't be as well. So you've got like holes in in this space, other things like that. So from that standpoint, it it didn't do a fantastic job, right? There's not a whole lot of like checking in here or anything like that. And again, maybe I'm testing something different than what the claim is, but to me, it just didn't do a very good job. And so, my next thought was, okay, well, let's try it on Astra. Let's try it on like the highest level model they have. I put it on extra high. And so, when I did that, um, I said, let's test this with Astra instead. Um, it first of all, it noted that the model doesn't matter because it's using the images tool, right? So, Astra doesn't do a better job on this than Saul does. um which is something that's definitely worth knowing. Um but you can see how this went through the exact same thing. This time it just generated a couple images with the checkerboard background and it failed completely. So it basically said this failed the test. Um it only generated opaque checkerboards with no alpha channel. So maybe I could go in there and like prompt it some more in order to get it to remove the background. Um but personally for me, I found the transparency was kind of meh. [snorts] Um, I mean it it didn't really do what I was asking it to do. Now, I could probably go through and test it with some simpler shapes, right? But, um, like just with this particular image, it didn't really seem to fully understand the concept of removing the background in a way where it could actually apply it in a useful way. So, I mean, I would say from this standpoint on that claim, at least for what I saw, I would say it really didn't have better transparency handling, at least in the tests that I did. Now, there's probably more testing that needs to be done. Um, there may be images where it's better at this. I will say though, I will know initially when I asked it to do this, what it did is it just generated an image in here with a transparent background itself. So, what it might be better at doing is it might be better at just generating a new image with a transparent background as opposed to taking an existing image and making it a transparent background. So, I'm not really sure like the nuances of what it's doing in the background. I just found that it didn't do quite what I was asking it to do um in this situation. Okay. So, I do feel like it's also implied in here that this is better at um handling things like text and things like that. So preserving your information in the images. So I did want to do a quick test of that just because if I look at these, right? Like these look like examples of things that have specific dates and times and things like that, right? So like for different areas and that kind of thing. So I I I want to test this just to see what it can do. I'm not sure this is maybe an explicit thing that's said in here, but I feel like it's kind of implied that it's supposed to be better with the details. And so I thought what we could do is we could just take an image and actually and so if we actually go over into images over here um there's an option not only for trending right these are like different styles but you can click on templates there's a flyer there's a poster there's basically these template templates that um you can use as kind of a starting point right and so in this in this case right note note what it does is it says create a flyer it conveys my message clearly what I'm going to do is I'm going to drop an image in of a model that I had GPT create. And so when I drop this in, it like started doing this. I'm going to stop it. Okay. And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to use this prompt right here. And then I'm going to give it some relevant information, right? We'll give it an example address, an example phone number, an example date for an open house, and we're going to ask it to generate a flyer showing that information, and we'll see what it comes up with. Theoretically, what it should be able to do is take the information that we gave it, drop it on that flyer in a way that's consistent with the actual information. All right. So, if we take a look at this. So, let's see. We've got the house in here. It's got some great looking images in here. It picked the worst part of the model that doesn't fully make sense um to put in this image, but that's okay. Overall, it looks good, right? And so, if we look at it, it went in here and it added the correct address, the correct time. It's got the correct date in here and it's got the example information. So, from a text handling standpoint, I feel like this did a really good job of taking something, creating what we asked it for using one of the new templates, and then putting the accurate information on that element. Okay. And then finally, we're going to check out the last feature, which is the sketch tool. Now, like full disclosure, I'm not 100% sure exactly when I would use this, but it does seem like kind of a fun tool. So, we're just going to do something fun with it. And so, the one thing I found interesting is with the sketch tool, they've got this uh this example where they go through and they're like, "Create a garden." And then they like sketch a they sketch a layout of a garden and they use it to create kind of like a backyard space. So, I think what I'm going to do is I'm going to do the same thing where I'm just going to sketch out a simple backyard and see what it generates because from like sketch to 3D standpoint, that actually sounds pretty interesting to me. So, we'll give that a try and see what it does. Okay. And so, to do this, what we're going to do is we're going to type in at sketch right here. And when we do that, when we pick sketch, what that's going to do is that's going to allow us to draw a sketch. And so, I'm going to do something very similar to what they did. I'll just draw like the overall shape of the garden right here. And then we'll draw maybe some trees over here. So, we'll just draw a tree like this. And then do the same thing over here, right? With a second tree like this. And then we'll draw some circles for plants. like so. And I think you can do this on your phone as well. So, it' probably be better to do it that way. But let's say we had maybe a pond over here. And then we'll tell it we want some grass and a little area here. And then I'm going to draw a path like this. And this is a terrible, terrible design, but it should give us kind of an idea of what this is going to look like. So maybe some more circles over here. And yeah, doing this by hand or on an iPad would be significantly easier. So, that's definitely something to consider if I had like an Apple Pencil or something like that versus trying to do it with your mouse. But, it is an interesting idea to just kind of like sketch out a space, right? So, we're just going to click in here like this. And then I asked it to give me a prompt, which I don't love. So, I'm just going to write a new prompt. So, turn, we can use the first part. Turn my rough garden sketch Pink areas are planting beds with flowers. Green. Hatching is grass. Blue is a pond. Gray is a curving path. And we'll go ahead and we'll take this last thing which is create this lush inviting garden with layered plants, ornamental grasses, natural stone, etc. Uh planting beds. We're going to say with plantings right here. So, we've got this sketch and we're just going to drop it in there. Now, to me, this just feels like a way to generate an image. It feels like you could maybe do this in like paint or something like that or a sketching tool instead. So, I'm not sure if there's anything special about the sketch function other than it just pops up a little window that you can sketch on, but we'll see what kind of an image this is going to generate. Okay. And so, this is what it came up with. And I will say it kind of followed along with this. I see what it was thinking um cuz I drew two lines in here instead of one. Um so, there's probably some stuff we could do to adjust this. Um but this is an interesting function for very conceptual things, right? I could see you popping up the chat GPT app on your iPhone um and sketching that kind of way or or sorry on your iPad or maybe doing it on your iPhone. Um doing it on your computer to me it just it feels very clunky. I would probably want to draw something and then upload an image. But I mean this did do I mean it did follow the instructions, right? It's got your flowers over here. It's got all this other stuff over here. So from like following your sketch, I think it's kind of a fun idea. I don't know how much I'll use it as like a day-to-day tool um for actual like conceptual things, but it is kind of a nice function to have in there. Okay. And so highle thoughts on this. Um so I mean looking at the videos I'm seeing online, a lot of people are saying this is amazing. Um that it's a big step forward. I when I when I look at it, I mean I feel like it is definitely a step forward, right? like the the way that it's maintaining the camera location when you make changes and not changing any other elements in the scene is very very good. Like that is a huge step forward from what we've seen in the past. I mean images 2 was good. This is better at that. What gets me on that is the noise issue is still a big problem for me because a lot of the time what I'm doing is I'm iterating, right? Like what if we looked at a wall panel? What if we looked at a wall tile? What if we had a different carpet? What if we had a different piece of furniture in here? And when you're getting that noise creeping in like over and over again, that's a real problem for me because I need it to stay consistent in a way where I'm not losing the visual fidelity of the elements in there. So, that's an issue for me. Um, for sure. Obviously, I gave it a very difficult um very difficult task, but I didn't really feel like I got a super good result out of the background removal tool and the transparency. So, um I should probably test it with some additional things, but I that that was just kind of okay to me. Um so, I had some issues with it. It failed on my final take. So, um I do think that's something that would hopefully improve in the future. Um so, the templates and the data um I think are pretty cool. So, having the template file um already preset, like create a flyer, having like the preset prompt is nice and having it take data that you give it and accurately put it on images. I think is like super valuable and super helpful. Um, I don't know if it's a huge step forward from images too or not because I don't do a ton of text on images, but I feel like it did do a really good job of taking what I gave it and putting it on there in an accurate way. The sketch function for me is something that I'm not going to use all that much. I mean, I like the idea of being able to do a quick sketch on my iPad and then send it into ChatGpt and have it render something out or give me something that's more detailed. So, I think that's a plus. Um, but I don't think it's something I'm going to use day-to-day. So, I mean, overall, I mean, I would say this is definitely a step forward from what it was. I mean, the the camera location staying where it is and not drifting is significantly better and that is helpful. But that noise issue stays and at least when you're doing iterative design, that's a real problem, at least for me. But I'd love to hear from you in the comments down below. What do you think about this new version? I just love having that conversation with you guys. As always, thank you so much for taking the time to watch this and I'll catch you in the next video.