So I've been avoiding this video for
a while, not because I didn't know about the tools out there, I did, but
every time I look at what other people were doing with AI in archviz, it
felt like just chasing hype, you know? Framing it as this AI is gonna
replace everything kinda, kinda thing, and I just don't believe in that. So I waited until I found something
that actually fits the way I work, where the tool assists the process, where
there's actual control and authorship, and I think I finally found it. One tool that is gonna assist us in
pretty much everything we need in terms of visual communication for architecture. I found Magnific. You might have known it as this
powerful upscaling tool in the past, but it has evolved a lot since then. It's now a platform that gives you access
to the best AI models out there for image, video, and of course, still upscaling
with just one single subscription. And the cool thing is that it wraps
all of that up into one unified workflow, especially with Spaces,
this infinite canvas where you build your own multi-step workflows. This is very, very powerful. And yes, this video is
sponsored by Magnific. I had been hearing about it for a while
online, but also people were coming and asking directly to me if I was using it. And coincidentally, as I was entering
this architecture competition recently, which I'll definitely make a video
about it soon, so be sure to subscribe to the channel, Magnific reached out. So the timing was perfect. I had a real project with a real deadline,
and competitions are even tougher. And then actual deliverables, just the
right conditions to actually test it. And what I found out is that
this is genuinely useful. Definitely not as this one-click result
sort of machine, but something that fills specific gaps, speed things up
where it makes sense to do it, and most importantly, keeps you in control. So that's what this video is, essentially
a super tutorial with a bunch of practical stuff, things that I've been
testing and doing in the past few weeks. I'm gonna place timestamps down below
so then you can jump in and go back into whatever's most relevant to you. No slop, I promise. Let's get into it So Magnific is a web-based platform,
so there's nothing to install. You're just gonna create your
account, choose a plan that fits your needs, and everything runs
here directly in the browser. We're gonna start with the image section. Here we have many tools to choose from,
and they can all be very interesting, and more might pop in here in the future. But most of the things we'll do
happen here under the image generator. Add people to images. So say I have a finished rendering
here, a finished image, and I'm just doing some lightweight post-production
in Photoshop, adjusting colors and so on, and I wanna add a person here. Instead of just placing the entire
render into Magnific, I would say that it's best just to add
the area you want to, to edit it. So I'm gonna grab an area here
with the selection marquee tool. I'm gonna duplicate it and make it a smart
object Then go inside Ctrl + A to select all, then Ctrl + C to copy everything,
and then with your mouse hovering here on Add, you're gonna hit Ctrl + V. Nice. So it's now added here to Magnific,
and doing this way, you didn't have to spend much time saving this as an image,
which might be little you might think, but I guarantee you it's a time saver
once you get into the rhythm or just Ctrl + C and Ctrl + V between the tools. Now, here in the prompt area, you
can be as specific as you want, and I also don't believe into
selling you this magical prompt. It really varies on the demand you have. But, uh, what I can tell you is that you
can use GPT or Claude to help you out with this, or then with the assistant here,
which we'll get to see later in spaces. So essentially describe what you need,
how many people, the action, clothing, and again, you can be as specific as
you need or let the model handle that. But what I do recommend is that you
use key phrases like, "Don't change the camera angle," "Maintain image
proportions," uh, "Keep architecture intact," "Don't change materials." Doesn't, it doesn't have to be
this specific way of writing, but this idea, you know. For these crops that I use, I do auto
as the aspect ratio, 2K on the quality. This is more than enough. And then depending on the plan you
have, for now at least Magnific, uh, you don't-- they don't cost any
generations, which is quite amazing. And right now, Nano Banana 2 is the
strongest model for image generation, but I wouldn't get too fixated on that. The whole premise of Magnific is
that when a newer model drops, you're gonna already have access to it. So, I mean, maybe in a few months
it's gonna be Nano Banana 3 or Nano Banana Pro 2 or something like that. That's one of the biggest
advantages of using Magnific, just one subscription, as I said. Now hit Generate, and it's often fairly
quick, but the good thing is that you can start working on another generation
right away while this one processes, or even just do a slightly different
version so that you have more options to choose from, or even with another
model like the Nano Banana Pro or the GPT model or something like that. And this is very efficient when
compared to the chat version of these models, you know. Okay, we have it here. This looks really good. And instead of now downloading this as
an image file, and then again cluttering your folder with the many generations
that gets often made, I like just coming in here and then just copy image. Now we can go to the Smart Object
in Photoshop Ctrl + + V to paste it, align the borders, and make sure
that that matches somewhat perfectly. And then I like to go then here
one step further and just mask the people out, and then you could
even then hide the base layer. And this workflow here means that
the base render will always remain the same, or most of it at least. You will avoid making your images
go through the many iterations and generations inside an AI model and start
losing the details, which is quite common. And so you can use this Smart Object
workflow to grab each part of the image you want to enhance or tweak and be
very precise and specific about it. And this also means that in the future,
if part of the design changes, you know, a client requests something
different, you can always then re-render from your software, then just replace
the base render here in Photoshop, and you're gonna be pretty much done. Another way I like to use this
workflow of adding people is coming in here with 3D people already in
place, you know, from the 3D software. That way, I can guarantee scale and
positioning, and only adjust then obviously realism, which is much
needed, texture, characteristics, and make sure that I have… I treat
this as something already existing. I'm just improving and
not creating from scratch. Or then even treating this as a
typical cutout and even adding motion blur here in Photoshop. I mean, obviously, you can do that
already with the AI model, but here in Photoshop, you have more control,
and you can do this non-destructively. You know, more blur, less blur,
you can do everything here. Imperfections and enhancements. Now, with the same thinking of smart
objects and being very precise about how you change, how you control the
change with your images, we can use the image generator to add imperfections
to certain parts of the image. For example, the side table, or let's
do together this concrete column here. And a tip I can give you here
is to be very careful with the intensity in the prompting. So I recommend using words like subtle or
soft and others so that it has a bit of wear, but it's not something destroyed. Just a little bit of
imperfections, that's all we want. These are things that you could
obviously do with decals or advanced rendering engines with
material mixers and all of that. But using AI specifically here allows
you to move faster during rendering and modeling, and only attack specific
parts of the image when you need it. Same thing for vegetation. You can enhance existing vegetation
with a quick prompting here, and only enhance the realism. Or even modify it completely, just
change the style of the landscape altogether, though I find it better
just to use it as a simpler enhancer. For me, that's the way to go
with the architectural visuals. And most of the rendering engines
nowadays, from the simplest to the more advanced, are providing AI enhancers. But they are often limited, so having
the ability to do it here with all of the customization you need feels a little
bit more like the right move, you know? And by the way, I'm Oliver. I run Upstairs, an educational
platform focused on architectural visualization and representation. This is literally what I do, so I wouldn't
be here if I didn't think this was something genuinely worth showing you. And if you want to start using
Magnific today and try everything that I'm talking about in this video
and a lot more, you can check out the first link in the video description. So now let's keep going. Variations. This is interestingly, useful, and very
applicable to architectural visualization. Think of it as expanding the
range of possible results. It's essentially an image generator with
specific built-in prompts and templates. It's great for quick testing, but I find
it even better to just run something like this over spaces, so-- Which I'm
gonna show you later in this video. But I just wanted to mention this
here because it does exist, and it's fairly quick to use, and it does give
us, uh, some interesting results. And of course, one of the most
used ways of taking advantage of AI is as an upscaler. Here you can use it in two ways. One, in a more creative way, though
I don't think this is really the way that Archvis benefits too much. Or then second, with the precision
mode, where you can just enlarge an image, maintaining its fidelity. This is really where the gold is. And then even with the precision mode,
I see two ways that we can explore this. One, with the intention of
speeding up the rendering process. So for example, if you're in a rush,
you can just get an HD image, just like, you know, 2K resolution out
from the rendering engine, and then quickly pass it through the upscaler,
like a, like a good upscaler here with Magnific, to get it to 4K or higher. And then two, if you already have a
4K resolution, something like a final image, and then you wanna push it to
8K maybe, or sometimes even more, to do specific crops of your image as
sort of like detail images, you know? This is great for mood boards,
Instagram posts, or just sharing specific details about your image with
clients, competitions, portfolios. I use this a lot. Now, you can definitely explore more of
these tools inside the image section. There are so many options to choose from. But let's move to video right
now to make things move. Video Now, we're very used to just showcasing
and communicating architecture, especially unbuilt spaces, with still images. Videos are often very demanding
to make, even though recently it's been getting easier and
easier with real-time renderings. It's still, it's kinda consuming. But with AI for video, things start
to get a little bit more interesting. So here, under the Video section,
go to the Video Generator. But, and very importantly, we're not
generating your video from scratch, from a prompt, pretty much ever, I would say. We always start from a
frame, from an image. This will guarantee more consistency
and control in your generations. In terms of models, I know that at the
moment, Seedance 2.0 is getting a lot of spotlight, um, but I found out that
I had more success with Kling 3.0. It does what it tells you. It has a little bit more precision,
I felt… while Seedance or Seedance, well, does what I think it looks good,
so it's a little bit more creative. I mean, that also can change in
the c- upcoming months, for sure. For archviz, I need precision, plus Kling
3.0, it's a cheaper model at the moment. But I mean, feel free to
test all of these out. As you can see, so many models, and
each one does something different. Simple clip. I like using this for a simple, static
camera with people and vegetation moving so the scene feels alive. You add a start image. Your render. And then the trick with the prompting
is, again, to use subtle words. Like instead of, uh,
windy or wind, use breeze. Use words that are subtle and natural,
especially for people movement. It makes a huge difference,
as you're gonna see. And you can give it a twist and even
ask for some camera movement too. But I would say keep it cinematic
in a sense, like, keep it subtle. And the biggest pro tip I can give you
here is just study real architectural showreels for reference, like the
Local Project, EST Living, Open Space. That's the kind of
movement you're going for. For the prompting itself, I
always recommend Assistant inside Magnific or just going directly to
Claude or GPT to build something that's a little bit more detailed. But I would say that still
keep it simple, you know? Sometimes if you, if you add too long
prompts, it ki- it, it confuses the model. So after generating… this looks amazing, right? It always blows my mind how
good these generations are. It keeps architecture and
just only moves what we need. Six months, like one year ago,
this wasn't really that possible And another pro tip I would
give you here is that credits run really fast with video. I mean, as you can expect, because
it's a bunch of frames, a bunch of still images, uh, put together
so that it creates a video. So I would say that do generations
with 720 or 1080p in small in duration just for testing. Make sure that all, everything
works, and then go longer if you need it or higher quality. And then you can also use the
video upscaler to get to 4K. But often, from what I've tested, 1080p
sometimes like social media, like specific deliveries, sometimes is enough, you know. And then remember obviously that you
can be very specific with the prompting and ask for certain movements on people. And I would say go with no audio,
uh, for most of the things, at least most of the generations. And then you can always add that
later in the video editing process if you're gonna be composing a showreel. Timelapses. Now, timelapses are one of the coolest
ways to utilize video generations. Just static cameras or just even
like subtle zoom-ins or zoom-outs. But the idea is that we focus on the
building being used instead of focusing on specific actions or specific individuals. It's about showing scale and atmosphere
and not, not really a movie set, right? I think timelapses are one of
the best ways, um, to really communicate architecture visually. Start and end image. Speaking of timelapses, something
very powerful is utilizing the start and end image. There are honestly so many creative
ways to use it for architecture. You just need to understand the
concept, and then you go crazy. I mean, obviously it's very simple,
but start image is the first frame of your video, and then end image
is where the video is gonna end. Simple as that. And then AI is gonna fill that gap. So for example, you can get a
day scene render, then use the image generator here, and then
ask it to make it a night version. Um, or then you can even
render a night version. Then place both as start
and end image or vice versa. You can change this. And then prompt it so that you
have a time-lapse transition from one to the other. This is very, very useful, very
cinematic, and can definitely fit into an architectural showreel if used right. This is a really good storytelling tool And you can do the same with, uh,
let's say like an empty lot to built architecture, but this already
touches a little bit on the slop area Uh, same thing here for an
empty room to a furnished room. Like a bit of slop if you ask me, like,
is this really necessary to the story? Like, like what's the purpose of this? But I wanted to show you, like,
there's so many possibilities. For example, just the fact that you can
be very specific with things like, let's say, opening a solar shading system. This start and end gives us a lot of
control over the output of the video. A little less margin for
hallucinations with… especially with the correct prompting. Spaces. Now, everything we saw so far in
terms of tools is also here in Spaces. Spaces is the biggest strength
of Magnific, I would say. It really completely changes
how powerful this platform is. I'm gonna show you a few examples
of how this works, but the reality is that we could even make a full
course on the mechanics of this tool. And if a course would interest you,
actually, let me know in the comments below, and we might even do that. Now, let's start with lighting
scenarios, and this first one I'm gonna show you kind of step-by-step. So we start by coming here to
Spaces, and let's create a new space. This is an infinite canvas
that works with nodes. I mean, sounds complex, but
very simple to understand. And you can start from nodes or just
dropping an image directly in here. That's what I'm gonna do. So let's say I wanted to
test a few lighting scenarios based on this render here. Something I do a lot, and to give
me ideas or directions I can go. I would do this manually in the past,
but now it's very fast with this tool. Instead of just using a text prompt, like
something ready, let's right-click and add a, an assistant and type something like,
"Give me twelve exterior archviz lighting setups across main daylight scenarios." And then obviously more details here. And then I'm gonna ask it to export
as a list, which then gives me the 12 individual prompts that I asked. This is pretty cool, right? And so now we can right-click and
add a image generator and feed the list into the text input and the
base render into the image input. Like this is kind of the logic
that you've gotta understand. And so it's already set here to 12 on
the outputs automatically, and this image generator, it's the same one that
we were using in the image section. I'm gonna do a NanoBanana 2, auto
aspect ratio, 2K, and then run. Wait a bit. 12 images are being generated,
but overall, this is very fast for the output we're gonna have. Very effective. And after a little bit,
look how amazing this is. It always blows my mind. And with this in mind, obviously, I
then go back to the rendering software to recreate a similar atmosphere. I use this more as a reference and
ideation tool, and not so much as a, as a final result, though you could
use it if you wanted, and then just run this to like through an upscaler. And the best part for me is that since
this space is already set up, I can just swap this base image, hit Run again, and
kinda instantly, I mean, after a little bit, we have a new set of scenarios
for a completely different render. That's the power of building these
workflows once and reusing them. You see where I'm going with this? Furniture replacement test. Now this one is also kinda mind-blowing. I added three images here, like
these three different lounge chairs in white background, and I wanted
to test them in this rendering here. Fed them into a list object so it's
organized, and then added a crop of the render I was working on. And again, crops are just easier
to specify things as prompts, and just avoid like bigger areas for
hallucinations, but you can test it with a full render as well. Then I created a text prompt, like
replace the, the selected chairs in the interior, uh, scene, and then make
sure to use the @ symbol to link the chairs from the reference list and the
base, the base render as well, so that your prompt is even more specific. And then you can go as detailed as
you want with the prompting as well. Like use Assistant, use Claude,
use GPT, whatever works for you. But sometimes like simpler pro-prompts
also, uh, get the job done, especially with the @ symbol connecting everything. And then you feed that text
and the image list into an image generator, NanoBanana 2. Auto aspect ratio, 1K for this one
is enough as well, just to, just because it's just quick testing,
and the output comes back as a list. Amazing, right? Quick iterations, very
consistent lighting, correct color, material throughout. I mean, this is, this
is really nice, right? Obviously, you don't have as much
control as in 3D, like specific rotation of the chair and so on, and,
and changing like specific materials. I mean, you can do that with
prompting but, I mean, I think it's better for just quick testing. This is really incredible. Of course, if you wanted to use from
here, you can just upscale this, just paste it back in Photoshop and take it
from there as a typical post-production. Use masks and kinda stitch
everything together. And I mean, the level of detail on
these furnitures coming from an image, very hard to find assets like this
that are both very realistic and not that heavy to work with, especially
for a typical architecture firm. And well, from this workflow, you can of
course then upscale, download everything, do video generations, iterate even more. You get the idea. Reframe. As I said, the options are endless. So we can take that reframe
workflow that I showed you before with the image section, and then
do it here manually in spaces with a little bit more customization. From what I've tested, to be honest,
this is one of those things that sometimes works, sometimes doesn't. Uh, you're gonna need a few tries. I mean, that's, that's for sure,
and you're gonna need to be tweaking the prompting a lot. But for example, the ultra close-up
material study of the chair, I mean, this looks really good. Now, the medium shots, maybe not so much. I mean, hallucinates a bit. The top-down view is very interesting
too, but whatever it can't see, it's going to just invent. And I added even like a close-up
screenshot of the lamp specifically because it kept getting wrong before. I mean, you get the idea, right? A base image, prompting,
reframing, and be very specific. If you used it from the image section, it
comes with pre, pre-built-in templates. From here, you can use the assistant
or Claude to kind of help you imagine possible directions you could take here,
and you start connecting the nodes. And I know that this kind of looks
complex, but once you get the hang of it, it's really just playing with it and
just kind of building this as you go. Character placement. Last example here, and I think this
one is the one that makes sense to end this because it's about taking control
over the result and kind of using this as more of a complete, um, workflow. I'm using two characters here, a woman
and a dog, and then two images here with just one exterior and one interior just
to show you that you can do everything here together in this-- the same space. And then with a simple prompt, I
ask it to place both on the render, and then I reference them And look,
they're already in the image, very consistent with the original characters. The scale sometimes is hard
to adjust, if I can be honest. Um, sometimes I find it better to
just do it with the 3D people and just kind of just replacing them. But just to show you that this works,
and then from here you can fit this in, straight into a video generator. Ask for a cinematic work with some
natural movement, and there you have it. I mean, pretty great, right? You can do this directly with the
individual video generation for sure, but spaces give you this overview
of the entire process, especially when you're working with consistent
characters from beginning to end, or especially when you're working with
multiple scenes and you wanna treat this as a, as a combined workflow. And honestly, another strength
of spaces is that you never have to save anything to your desktop. You can copy and paste from
Photoshop directly in here, grab stuff from the internet, you know,
Google, and then go back and forth. The clipboard keeps everything, uh,
moving fast, and everything you generate, everything that you're using gets
saved to your assets automatically. All versions, the full history,
it's always backed up, and then you download the final versions you need
or just the ones that you wanna keep. All right, I know that was a lot of
information and we could go even further here, but I suggest now going check out
Magnific yourself with the link in the video description, and let me know if
you'd like to see more videos on this in the future or maybe even a course. You know, I've been pessimistic about
where things were going or rather are going with AI, and still am to be honest. But I truly believe this tool
doesn't replace the thinking. That part is still on you. There's a lot of hyped up stuff
online saying that AI is gonna replace the traditional workflow, that the
core skills of visual communicating architecture are not relevant anymore,
and, uh, that's just not the case. You still need consistency, you still
need control, and Magnific comes in as this creative assistant that helps you
move faster, iterate quicker, handle specific generations or adjustments. A bit of post-production help for
sure, and for video generations especially, I think it's amazing. Now let me know in the comments
what you think about this. Have you used it already? Plan on using or not using it? I really wanna hear from you guys, and
I'll be looking at the comments section. I'll catch you guys in the next one.