The construction industry is going digital 
and longevity of companies operating in the   construction industry will depend on their ability 
to manage data effectively. We need to be able   to manage all data, store it digitally, and sell 
lifecycle and process management software. Because   for every engineer who creates something, there 
are ten people who have to deal with the data.   Dozens of systems need to be filled with data, 
and hundreds of specialists need to access the   data created during the design phase. But how 
to work with the data if the project database   is stored in Revit closed proprietary format 
or in the parametric and complex IFC format?   Different data structures and different versions 
of formats create insurmountable problems for   professionals who need to validate and process 
data in order to automate business processes.   Revit's proprietary and IFC's parametric format 
prevents specialists from accessing popular data   processing tools. Data engineers globally show a 
70% preference for structured data in analysis,   processing, and automation tasks. Its tabular 
format functionality and extensibility make   data management and analysis more efficient. But 
how to get this structured data for Rabbit and   IFC formats? Using the Data driven Construction 
converter for transferring data from Rabbit and   IFC databases into a structured format 
guarantees complete data integrity with   no loss of information. The converter provides 
comprehensive data files in tabular XLSX format   and geometry in open Collada format, providing 
access to a fully open data for complete storage   of project information. Thus, we get a completely 
open data format where all project data is stored,   which opens us up to a huge number of popular 
tools that experts in other industries have   been working with for a long time now. To 
obtain a converter, visit the data driven   Construction website. The tool is available 
for free. Simply download it, unzip the file,   and it's ready for use. Simply enter the folder's 
address where these files are stored and click   the Conversion Start button. The transformation 
of closed and parametric formats into open and   structured data begins. We obtain the geometries 
of every element from Revit or IFC project using   the widely recognized and accessible Open colada 
format, a prevailing standard in the realm of   visualization. Each element in the project 
geometry has meta information that is stored   in the project table. For each file, we acquire 
comprehensive meta information about the project   in the shape of a large two dimensional Excel 
table. The Data Frame a format widely employed   in nearly every domain of economics today. This 
data format allows you to quickly group, analyze,   and visualize the data of the whole project and 
its individual groups without the need to use   BIM applications or API connections within CAD 
tools. To get all information about elements in   IFC format projects, just enter the address of 
the folder where IFC files are stored and click   the button to start conversion. We obtain the 
geometries of every element from IFC project using   the widely recognized and accessible open Collada 
format and two dimensional project table allows   for versatile data operations such as validation, 
grouping and analysis in any software designed to   handle tabular data or data frames. To use the 
terminal version of the converter on Windows,   open either Command Prompt or PowerShell in the 
folder where the converter is located. Then enter   the file path of the Revit or IFC document 
you wish to convert into Spunform and hit the   Enter key. To simultaneously process and analyze 
hundreds or thousands of projects in Revit or IFC   formats, utilize the provided sample code found 
in the folder with the converter. This code can   be integrated into any process logic and operates 
entirely offline eliminating the need for BIM or   CAD tools. Thanks to artificial intelligence tools 
such as Copilot or Chat GPT, we can now process   data on all project elements from Revit or IFC 
format directly into Excel. For example, we can   automate the categorization and classification 
of all items based on one or more parameters,   or convert, for example, parameter property 
values into other classifications with just one   line of code. Alternatively, we can automatically 
generate and insert descriptions in the desired   format for any element properties, element groups 
or element properties across the entire Revit and   IFC project, thereby simplifying and customizing 
documentation processes to retrieve data from   Revit and IFC it is enough to load the data 
table resulting from the conversion and describe   the logic of work in one or two sentences. In the 
first example, we will group the data by category,   parameters and output in the form of a bar chart. 
Chat GPT outputs the result with 100% accuracy.   Or, for example, we will take only elements 
from the wall category and display all types of   elements with the sum of width for each type. As 
an output, we get a table, a ready document, or as   in this case, a picture with data visualization 
of the final table. We can also use Chat GPT to   validate the data in the model. For example, you 
can check the correctness of parameter values and   output the identifiers of elements that have not 
passed the check. These identifiers can be copied   and used, for example, directly in Revit. We can 
also use the Chat GPT solution code to create a   script that automates the application of the same 
process logic to any number of future Revit and   IFC files. And instead of spending time opening 
files and manually generating tables and images,   we can use the Chat GPT code to fully automate 
the process and remove the human element from   the supply chain in processing hundreds or 
thousands of future revit and IFC projects   to automate the process, let's copy the ready 
code from Chat GPT and paste it into pipeline   after conversion. The first part of the code 
from Chat GPT is responsible for grouping data   and creating a table. The second part of the code 
creates a chart using the data from the table.   Let's modify the code so that after the chart 
is generated, the image is saved in the Projects   folder. Now we just need to specify the path to 
our projects and click Execute. The code will   automatically process all projects in the folder, 
retrieve the Excel database from each project,   and automatically generate images for the Walls 
group for each of the Revit or IFC projects in   the folder. Similarly, we can check parameters 
and values of elements or groups of elements,   as well as retrieve images, documents, tables 
for a large number of projects from different   versions of IFC and Revit. To retrieve data in 
an open, structured form, we do not need to use   the Internet or install plugins or tools from 
CAD vendors, which allows seamless processing   of projects. Data visualization tools such as 
Power, Bi Tableau or Google Data Studio mainly   use structured data formats as their main inputs. 
Using the data driven construction converter,   we can convert data from Revit and IFC projects 
into structured formats, and with the help of   built in functions, we can automate the loading of 
this data into various documents and dashboards.   Structured data is a key element of AI and Big 
Data, enabling the collection of historical   data from projects in Revit and IFC formats. In 
the following example, datadriven construction   collected thousands of different Revit and IFC 
files, yielding 5 million elements with geometry   and meta information from different projects. 
These are presented in a data frame, the analysis   and code of which is available on Google's Kaggle 
platform. In this pipeline, we simultaneously   analyze tens of thousands of different projects in 
Revit and IFC formats. For example, we can track   project save times, estimate column positions in 
all 10,000 projects, or visualize window sizes in   several thousand projects from all over the world. 
This analysis of historical data provides valuable   insights for making informed business decisions 
for construction and design companies. The   closed nature of databases primarily prevents the 
accumulation of a company's structured historical   data. Such structured historical data propels 
other industries towards machine learning and   artificial intelligence technologies. Soon, 
data will be a primary driver of productivity   enhancement. I think AI has tremendous potential. 
It's going to change how we work, how we live. If   AI and robotics changes how we work and how we 
build, we could use AI and robotics as a means   to create much more productivity. Soon, the 
productivity of construction companies will   be closely tied to the availability of data 
and the tools necessary to leverage historical   company data effectively. With geometry copies of 
projects in the open and popular Colada format,   we can use geometric data from Revit and IFC 
directly in popular tools such as Omniverse,   Unreal Engine Blender, or Unity without the 
need for special plugins or routing programs.   Connecting data through built in editors or 
visual coding opens up unlimited possibilities   for creating simulation and data. Visualization 
and augmented reality tools allow you to use   open data in applications used at the design 
stages or construction sites, without the need   to have a CAD or BIM program on your computer. 
Download free solutions for working with data   in revit and IFC formats from the Data Driven 
Construction website. Construction has been,   is, and always will be about processes and data, 
and it doesn't matter what acronyms you use in the   last ten years and in the next five years. If you 
need help or advice with the transformation, the   Data Driven Construction will be happy to help you 
implement your ideas. Please consider subscribing   to our social media channels and sharing this 
video. By doing so, you'll be supporting the   creation of more content focused on the role of 
data in construction. Thank you for your support!