This is nuts. Look at that. Like a 3D model of our Airbnb property. 3D world versus the real world. That's That's crazy, man. You have an Airbnb listing. How do you make a cinematic video just like this one? How do you keep it consistent with the same building, the same layout, and the same details across different pictures from different angles? or if you just don't have enough pictures. Well, you build a property in 3D. And I'm going to show you how to do it today. It's so easy. You don't have to worry about doing it because GPT Astra can do it for you. You just describe it and Astra builds it inside of Blender. Now, GPT Astra, you've got to have heard of it by now. Open eyes most capable model. It's their version of the Fable 5 model. over a million context window and amazing reasoning, coding, and computer use. And legit see for computer use. It is so good. It's like having someone else at your desk with you. I use it non-stop now to fill out forms, to message people, email, everything, right? And as I said, you don't need to know Blender. You just need to have access to GPT Astra, have a listing like this one here. You have to download Blender and then use Higs Fields. and then you can build the 3D model and create the video. Super simple. So, let's get into it. And for context, we're going to be using Higsfield for the video. And of course, it needs no introduction. Higfield is like the biggest image video generation platform there is right now. Everything is on it. I mean, look at the stuff you're building right now with GPT6 Astra with Hexfield. It's completely nuts. Let's head on over here. You can see some different use cases if you need some inspiration. So, what have we got here? Paint the creation of Adam. turn the character into a cartoon, recreate the Oval Office. It's kind of like what we're doing today, and a bunch of other stuff, full video production. It's nut. So, we have this rental home. Right now, the problem with trying to make videos from stuff like this, you'll see it with people like the images will blend because they don't actually know, like AI doesn't know where one room stops and the next one begins. And it can't consistently do this and have a standard size. If you look here, it goes into this property, right? And then, oh, blends away. Little monkeys running down the wall, man. Don't know what's going on here. And it goes up the stairs. That's not the stairs. It becomes the upper room. Then that's kind of fine. So, he's like, I'm super happy with this, but I'm not super happy with that. I think clients would be like, what have you done to my house? So, what we're going to do is we're going to grab all of these images and essentially create a 3D model of this home so that you can get any shot that you want. So the first thing we have to do is make sure that you have Blender downloaded. Now Blender essentially is just a place for 3D modeling, right? Go and find something here. So there's an example of something made inside the Blender. Now don't worry, we don't have to do all of this crazy stuff. We're going to let Astra do it for us. And the way that Astra is going to do it for us in Blender is using this Higsfield bridge. Now, all you have to do is head on over to the link in the description below and you'll get Higfield now in Blender. So, we've got Blender here. You also get this for After Effects, Photoshop, Premier Pro, etc. where you can actually bring Higfield inside of it. So, scroll down to the bottom here and then we can just come and you can either copy this or since we're in chat GPT, you can literally just copy the plugin. All you have to do is go to ChatgPT plugins and then Higsfield. search for it, install it, and then you'll have Higsfield working with Astra directly. But to get it inside of here, make sure to download this here, which is the Higsfield inside of Blender Bridge. See it here. Head on over to Blender and then you literally just drag and drop the file into here. And then you start with this down the bottom. You can then create scenes, create 3D models, characters, images, videos, etc. Right? All directly in here. For example, scene builder. You can do something like grab this Airbnb link, come back over to Blender, paste in the URL and then just say create this apartment as a scene. And so you can do this in here or you can do what I normally prefer is to work directly from here. So I like to work inside of chat GPT codeex. It is the best usable application for AI 100%. You know, stop trying to use Claude when it's a nightmare. Just use codeex with Astra 6. I mean, it's the best on the market. So, create this apartment as a scene inside of Blender using Higsfield Bridge. Essentially, we want a 3D model of the entire apartment. Low poly. Essentially, we want a 3D model of the entire apartment. Low poly. Make sure this is changed to Astra. Put it right up to ultra. I'll go fast mode, too. And we'll send that in. Now, low poly, if you're unfamiliar with the term, just means things like this, right? So, it's a Let's see here. what do they call it? A 3D computer graphics modeling technique that uses a small number of polygons to build a mesh. And so that's why it's this type of stuff, which is just so much easier and faster for you to prototype because we're not trying to use Blender to create like proper HD stuff. We just want to create like the frames like the like the skeleton essentially that you're then going to use Higsfield to generate the videos or the images on top of it. But just to show you this in action, by the way, if we go to 3D model, I'll just say something like a Lamborghini. Then we'll generate that. And it will now generate a Lamborghini inside of Blender right here that you can then click and move around. I'll just give it a minute and you'll see. And bam, here's our car. He's upside down. I go hold command and roll zooms. Just that moves it around, by the way. And there's my Lambo. Don't that look good, man? That's sick. And so the cool thing here then is obviously you can let me see this here. There we go. Bam. Look at this. That's so cool, man. Uh but yeah. Anyway, so what we can do essentially is we'd have this as like a standard item. So now, for example, for the scene that we're going to be building, you could have a Lambo parked outside and have that in the shot and it's always going to be the same one. It's going to look the same. You can just change roughly where it is. So, of course, I've done a Lambo here, which is just a bit of fun. But in reality, what you could do is say you're upgrading the apartment, you're changing the garden, but you don't have new pictures yet. Well, you can update the 3D model to have the pictures or have the tree that you want or have the flowers that you want and have it be consistent every single time. So anyway, we'll let our Astra continue with this here where essentially it's going to go and get all the images and then turn them into a geometric floor plan that's a 3D model that we can then see in here, which is insane. So, let's let it work or let him cook as they say, right? So, it's made this low poly version which is absolutely incredible. This is of the the place. We'll go and double check that it's all legit in a minute, but first I've asked him to open it in Blender. So, Astra is we use my computer. Now, honestly, I was pretty skeptical at the whole Astra is AGI stuff, but legit it is amazing. Like, it's it's like having someone else at my desk who I'm like here do this and then they just figure out and do it super fast. this right here. Open this up in Blender. I didn't even use Blender. I don't even really have to learn how to use it because I just let AI do it for me here. So, and something cool too is like you can use your own mouse at the same time it's using it. So, don't worry about that. You just can't really use the same software at the same time. So, I can use my little screen here for example, but don't have to without interfering here with Astra. In any case, that says opened up now and we have it here. This is nuts. Look at that. like a 3D model of our Airbnb property fully with the outside deck and the kitchen, the bedroom, the dining room, the hot tub, the tree, the other tree. And this is where I was talking about like how you can then, you know, grab all of these. Then you could have like your second tree for example. Copy paste. And this is what I was meaning like for example here if we wanted to change this you know more sun loungers less change the flowers the number you can do that here and then it will be in every single shot that you generate whether it's an image or a video. So the next thing now that we have this here is let's check it's working so that it's like legit. So I'm going to put this on split screen now. So on the left we have the Airbnb on the right we have the low poly 3D render of the whole building. So now what we're going to do is we're going to check out each image and make sure that it kind of lines up to what we're expecting. So if we like zoom in here, this is the floor plan essentially. And so we can see that we have the the dining area kind of thing here like the kitchen with then a TV and a sofa that matches up here. So that looks good to me. So from this angle here, we can see we have the sofa, we have that door at the back, we have that opening at the side here as well. this door. We have the window, which is that window. Yeah. Sofa, the little kind of kitchen area. Then we have the TV here, which is of course, if we go to the next picture, that's the TV here. And there's a doorway here, which matches that doorway. And as you can see through here, that's the utility room or something that's in there. As you can see, um, or little bathroom has the chairs here. Same chairs here. Perfect. Now, the next room is the bedroom. That's the bedroom here with the window, with the bed. Even has the brown pillow. That's nuts. the door. So, spin around and see we have a door here. I think that door might be at the wrong side. That's fine. We'll just ask it to change it. Um, and then we have kind of walk-in wardrobe. Is that identified? Or I think it's identified as possibly shelves, but that's fine. We can just like record what I'm doing now and then just take that transcript and put it into Astra. But yeah, the bedroom definitely comes through from this kind of living area, which is perfect as we wanted. Then that's the little bathroom. That's fine. All right. Then we have outside. So we have here, this is kind of like the outside with the roof. So that's the table and chairs, which is what we have here. And that goes out into this kind of deck garden that we've got here with the sun loungers as well. So I mean, yeah, all looks good there. Zoom out. And then there's the pool. And we even have those like plants. That's you can see those here. Then there's the pool over there. That's the other plants with this back decking area. Perfect. And remember as well, this doesn't have to be absolutely perfect because we're going to then generate videos by giving this plus some of the pictures so that it knows what we're talking about. So what we want to do is we want to now create a camera angle. So we have our 3D world. Let's get a camera swooping in and like going through specific rooms or from specific angles cuz then that's what we're going to take to turn this into an actual video that has the actual camera angles that we want and approve. So, simply head back on over to Astra and we're going to say, so what we say is I want one camera swoop that comes from the loungers through into that um first kind of dining area room. Then it goes into the bedroom or the living room, the kind of little kitchen, then back out into the pool. Something like that. Just one nice clean camera angle. Please make that in Blender so that we can then render this out as a like a poly video. And now it's going to go away and do that. And once it's done, I'll show you it in Blender. Right, for context, no hate on this guy, but this is what we're trying to fix. So, if you look here, it goes into this property, right? And then, oh, blends away. Little monkeys running down the wall, man. Don't know what's going on here. And it goes up the stairs. That's not the stairs, and becomes the upper room, which is then this one here. Let's see what happens next. Then that's kind of fine. So, he's like, I'm super happy with this, but I'm not super happy with that. I think clients would be like, what have you done to my house? And that's kind of the 3D modeling supposed to fix this because then it knows exactly what it's doing. It's not just trying to think of moving from one image to the next. It's actually going to be following a 3D rendered camera through an actual 3D model of the building. And honestly, doing this has completely blown my mind. It's like every media company for every property development or rental needs to have this 3D model of their own building so they can create this AI generated video footage without having to hire an entire media team. Hope for good weather and keep the property empty. In my last Blender video, I showed you how to actually render this. So, and to go to output or wherever it is and all this good stuff, change the resolutions and render blah blah blah, right? But this time with Astra, it's just gone and rendered it on its own. Look. So, it swips in through here, looking at the table. Where are we going to go next? Oh, what's my camera doing? And it's swooping into the living room, back around into this dining room, and then out to the hot tub. Right. So, it's cool to see, but I think we could enhance this actually quite a bit. Um, but I feel like it's it's not smooth enough like 6 and 7 seconds and that 13 to 14 transition. So, let me just press function, which will activate my typeless, which is basically whisper flow, uh, text to speech, speech to text. So, at the first 3 seconds are kind of perfect, but then at like 5, 6, 7, the camera kind of points down and goes all weird. Then it comes up and goes into the living room, so back to normal. But then at 12 seconds, it cuts back to go in the kitchen. And then again at 19, 18 seconds, it cuts around to go into the pool. It'd be better if instead it just goes through the dining room at four 5 seconds, then straight into like basically the camera angle at 9 seconds, 10 seconds, and then here at 12, instead of turning right, it turns left and kind of goes into the bedroom and then kind of like 360s the bedroom, comes back out, goes through the kitchen, straight out to the hot tub. I'll paste that and let it run. Bam. So, at least the cool thing to be fair from this so far is that you can see that it does have a 3D model of your property and that of your property you're able to get cameras to move around because remember as well that it doesn't have to be perfect because we're going to put it into an AI video generator using Hicksfield and inside of there probably using Cance 2.5 but we'll let Astra decide. It will then have this video and the images so it'll be able to figure out what's best. Right. So, it's done a new version. Let's check it out. So, it swips in. Where are you going, man? Swips around again. Turn left. Turn left. Turn left. Ah, why is it so zoomed in? Right. So, definitely a bit sketchy this one. I didn't want it to actually 360. I just wanted it to spin in. And then, oh, 180, I guess, is what I really wanted it to do. 180 to here and go back through. Guess that's my bad. And come back through like this. And then leave Bosch. got better, but we need to fix it. Then after this, we'll just take what we've got, run it through Higsfield, and see what it can do. So, what we're going to want to do is normally I would head on over to Higsfield, and inside here, go to maybe Supercomput, which is like their all-in-one AI agent, which is amazing, or Cance 2.5 or something like that. And from here, normally I would give it a bunch of images and get it to create the video. Like, here's a bunch of videos we've created before. But as you can see, I just like give you one. Let's see one that you'll appreciate. This one here, maybe. And as you can see, we've already created a bunch of different videos here on Hfield, which is crazy. But most of these are actually all through using their MCP server that I've set up as well. So videos like this, for example, have these images and prompt sent in to Hexfield from Astra. At the time, I think it might have been 5.6 soul. But anyway, what we're going to do is let's set up the Higsfield MCP, which is how I've shown you anyway in the beginning. So, just simply go to codecs. You want to head to plugins, and in plugins, you want to install Higsfield and connect it up. And then you're good to go. And what I'm going to say, cuz you can just cue a message up instead of waiting, is I'm just going to take whatever it's got next. I'm going to say, I want you to send in this 3D model video and the shots from the Airbnb listing that's required and get it to generate that video using the Higsfield MCP server. You can decide in the model, but Cance 2.5 is probably best. Also, I want to test this by comparing it without the model. So, also run it, but without the video, just the images and the same prompt or similar prompt cuz I want to try and get the same result. but show the difference between giving it a video and not. And we'll send that in. And essentially now we'll be able to see basically is creating this Blender video a waste of time or does it really really help? Right. So it's done. We have the video and the Blender video. Then we have the video versus the photos only one. So just before we check that out, by the way, something super cool is inside of here. So, inside of your messages, you can actually see the videos that were generated from Higsfield. Whoa, spoilers. And you can actually click on it, see the different images that were used, and we can then recreate it. We can download it and the model. So, it actually used one three, which is an interesting choice. So, actually before the side by side, then let's just see what it made. So, this is it here. Let's go full screen. We'll collapse this side here. Let's see what we've got, man. So, zooms in with the table and then swaps. Oh, the wall disappears. We spin back around. Whoa. Now we're here. Then we go through there. Oh no. Right. I don't know what it's done here. I think it's picked the wrong the wrong one. Let me check. That is the final one. Let's go. Video versus the poly video. So, zoom in to here. Then it's into the kitchen, then the bedroom, then back through again, into here, and then out the door into the pool. H. It's a bit sketch. Let's see what it looks like with the photos to see if the video is messed up at the 3D world. So, we have the photo one here, which is basically just the same. Is there any real difference here? No, not really. One's the photos at the end kind of goes to the wrong one. Hm. Right. So, they're not perfect. So, let's uh let's figure out why not. So, use one 3.0. See, dance 2.5 higher subscription plan. So, I'll go and upgrade that inside of Higsfield cuz we want to use the latest models cuz I think something people forget is like this here. If you're selling this to a client, you're charging more than like $39 a month, you know? So, it's way worth the investment. And once you watch my channel, join my school community, you'll find out which prompts actually get the good ones and let me burn the credits, which thanks to HS for sponsoring this video. That's the reason we have the credits to burn so we can give you only the things that work. Cool. So, we're now on the ultra plan with our 6K credits sorted. So, so head back on over here. Then we'll send in a message and we'll say you need to review the actual video at the end because if you look here you can see that the video doesn't actually travel in the same way that the low poly one does. It travels slightly differently. Um and some of the videos it's like it it like blends instead of moving. So it doesn't feel like one motion, one like straight motion. Remember that the the poly blender is the exact kind of world. Um and the pictures are like the reference of it. So, we want to do exactly basically as you can see on the poly, but just with the items from the images. So, construct a prompt, maybe a couple, and let's test this out cuz we want it to be one swooping camera motion. And then I'll see you in a minute. Right, it's done two more tests. Let's check them out. So, this is the the kind of main one that is the best version that it's made. So, again, on the left, we have the camera. On the right, we have the low poly blender. Goes through, opens door in here. Looks good. Into the bedroom, back out the bedroom, into here, through here. Bum bum. Honestly, other than that, at the end, I think it has the actual graphics down really well. As in like everything feels three-dimensionally kind of where it should be, which is, you know, amazing to have it. So, yeah. Legit feeling. Look at that, man. That's like 3D world versus the real world. That's that's crazy, man. Into here. Bam. Into there. Out again. Yeah. I mean, I'm I'm pretty impressed by that to be fair. The only thing is that the continuous swoop is the one thing that it's not really able to do right now. But I think maybe to be fair, it's because it's not really a continuous swoop that we've made. It is a bit kind of there's loads going on. So, I think maybe a better way to do this would maybe be to take a couple of shots and then just chop them together. So, one shot here, one shot inside, etc., etc. For context, again, we have both prompts. They'll be inside of the school community, which you get a free trial if you want to just go get it. Um, and also this is the test one that it said had few hard shots. Yeah. So, there you go. Hard cuts. So, it's just not ideal that one. But the next test it's saying is the one worthwhile AI only. Next test is using Gemini Omni's video edit mode. Um, changing only the materials and furnishings. Yeah, let's try that, man. So, what I've done instead is split the camera angles into different shots just like you can see here because I just want to make sure that it's all working good and all looks good. And there you go. And I think honestly that's brilliant. And the cool thing here is that we can actually see what it's going to do before it does it, which you don't get when you're just putting in pictures. By the way, the stricter prompt wasn't really enough for this. So we used one three but there was like no clear AB1. We then used Genjutsu which was smoother but it's still kind of morphed. And then Cance 2.5 has the most useful short takes. So a stricter prompt wasn't really enough to get exactly what we wanted but we experimented with a few different models. Now here which is something very interesting is that this was the same model but a different job. Right? So this one I said preserve the blender scene and it looks really nice but it feels fake, right? Whereas this one here, the after I'm saying here's the real photo. Let's go from there. So interestingly, it might be better to have your real photo as the starting frame for then what you're going to do. And so the final result here is five shots. So, one to here, one then showing the inside, one showing the bedroom, another showing the pool. That shot is just amazing. And then a final shot just showing the whole place. Bam. That is so good. And so, the thing I just want to leave on mainly is to check the realism. So sure, check the camera for accuracy, but this low poly blender guide, this was super accurate on that shot, but because it didn't start from a real photo, you know, I mean, it just it was nowhere near realistic enough. Uh, and short shots, short shots are the most useful, it seems. So just do one small move per scene. Um, give each reference one single clear job. So this like swoop through the apartment stuff maybe it's actually just not the best way to do it. Um and then replace weak shots of course as well. So this is part of the service you're offering if you're going to do this for clients is if you have shots like this you know it's your duty to have the due diligence to say you know this is not insane graphics of Sims. You're wanting photorealistic videos. That's what you're getting paid to do. And so there you have it. That's how to create 3D models of properties from Airbnb or from anywhere. Basically, just from images into Blender using Astra and Higsfield. Now, go check out Higsfield in the link in the description below and of course check out the use cases. There are so many it's nuts. Anyway, thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next