In this 3-part series we’re going to be 
making this floor plan, furnishing it, and   adding materials to walls and floors, everything 
inside Blender. This is the third version of the   series and it’s full of new tips and tricks 
so you’re watching the latest and greatest.  I’m Dude Blender, and let’s jump right in!
In part 1 we’ll be making the walls. Part 2   will be windows, doors and furnishing. And in 
part 3 we’ll apply materials to the floor and   walls, light the plan and render it.
Alright, first we need a floor plan,   if you do this for clients, they will 
provide it, but for this exercise let’s   download one from the internet. FLOORPLANS.COM 
and HOUSEPLANS.COM have databases that we can use,   so you can go to either. As a sidenote, if you 
want to create your own, you can use Smartdraw   Floor Plan Creator, floorplanner.com or any of the 
bunch of resources that you can find in Google.  I’m going to go to HOUSEPLANS.COM and since this 
is a learning exercise, I’ll just try to find the   smallest plan. One bedroom, one bathroom, 
one story, 0 garages and let’s see what we   get. We can switch this to Floor plan to see the 
actual floor plans and I’m just going to go with   the first one, but you can go with whichever 
you want. The process is going to be same,   although if you’re starting with Blender you might 
want to follow me step by step with the same plan.  Click on it, scroll down to the plan and download 
that image. You can actually buy the plan which   includes a bunch of other stuff, and you can get 
more information about the idea of the house,   and if you scroll further down, you’ll see 
some of the specs and features of the house.  Okay, I recalculated the dimensions to the metric 
system. So just keep in mind that there will be   rounding errors. If you want to use this one, you 
can take a screenshot now and use that image. Now   let's jump into Blender. I'm using version 4.3, 
but you should mostly be able to follow if you're   using 3.6 or later. Let's delete everything. So, A 
to select all, X to delete and click on delete to   confirm the operation. The button appears right 
under your pointer, so you just have to click.  If you don't know how to navigate, the 
basic controls are middle mouse button   and drag to orbit, shift + middle mouse button 
and drag to pan. Scroll wheel to zoom in and out   and control + shift + middle mouse button 
and drag up or down to zoom with precision.   Open a file explorer window and find the floor 
plan. You can drag and drop it into the scene.  Now, if you select it by left clicking on 
it, you'll see here in the top left corner:   Collection | Empty. And it will also be selected 
here in the outliner. Whenever you drag and drop   an image into the scene, it is created as an 
Empty. An Empty is a helper object that you can   use for many things and it won't be rendered. 
If you go to the menu, shift + A and Empty,   you'll see that there are many types. One of them 
is image. And this is what we created by dropping   the file into the scene. Now we want to clear 
the rotation of the Empty and place it flat on   the grid so that its position in the Z dimension, 
so up, is zero. There are a few ways to do this,   but the easiest is using the alt key. With the 
image selected, we move it by pressing G or   grab. And then click to accept the operation. Same 
thing with R, rotate and S, scale. You right click   to cancel the operation. If we press alt + R, 
it clears the rotation. So, you might imagine   how to clear the movement – or translation as 
we call it – and of course, it would be with   alt + G. And now it's on the origin. If you press 
N to show the side panel, you can confirm that   it's in fact in the 0, 0, 0 location. And with 
0º, 0º, 0º rotation. Press N again to hide it.  Okay, now let's go to top view, which you can do 
by pressing 7 on the numbers pad or by clicking   on the Z in the navigation gizmo. Make sure that 
the Z is highlighted before you click on it. Now   we need to copy the plan to something that we can 
use in Blender. Note that I will do this by hand.   I'm not gonna be using any add-ons like Archimesh 
or Archipack. So, it's a personal choice, but if   you know this process, you'll be able to adopt 
a new workflow with an add-on very easily when   and if you choose to do so. Okay, so we want to 
make an outline of these dimensions. I'm going to   ignore the deck. Make sure that you're using the 
right units in your scene by going to the Scene   Menu>>Units. I'm going to change this to meters.
Shift + A >> Mesh >> Plane. This is going to   become the walls, so we might as well rename 
it now. F2 is the shortcut to rename it,   or you can double click the object's name in 
the outliner. Let's call it “Walls”. Now we   want it to be the size of the outline of our 
plan. Horizontally, it's 2.9 + 4.1, so 7. And   vertically, it's 3.6 + 4, so 7.6. Note that there 
are rounding errors because of the conversion of   the units, and this plan apparently considers 
different thicknesses for different walls,   which we're not going to do, but I will tell 
you how you would do it if you ever need to.  Let's open our side panel with N. Make sure 
that you're on the Item tab, where you can   see the Transform information. Note that this 
panel is dynamic and it changes depending on   what mode you're in. If I tab into Edit Mode, 
we can see information of individual vertices,   which is useful in some situations. I want to 
be in Object Mode, so I tab out. Now I want   the dimensions to match the dimensions of the 
plan. And here we can just go ahead and type   the numbers. 7 in X and 7.6 in Y. Now this has 
the actual accurate measurement, and you'll also   notice that the Scale has changed. And this is 
a recurring source of frustration for Blender   beginners, because it interacts with a bunch of 
other things like modifiers and textures. So,   unless you really know what you're doing, you 
want the scale to be 1. So, control + A for the   Apply menu >> Scale, to reset the scale to one.
To keep everything tidy, we want this corner to be   in the origin. So, tab into Edit Mode and select 
this vertex. Shift + S for this menu and Cursor   to Selected. Tab out, right click >> Set Origin >> 
Origin to 3D Cursor to do precisely that. And now   as we did before, Alt + G clears any translation.
Next, we need to delete this face, but not the   vertices. So, tab into Edit Mode, A to select 
everything, X to get the Delete menu >> Only   Faces. Now we tab out to Object Mode and select 
the image. We want to scale it with S and align   it to this object. So, let's do that. You'll 
be scaling it with S and moving it with G. If   you want to constrain the movement, press G 
and then X or Y and hold shift to move with   precision. Just eyeball it, it's just a reference.
As we expected, there is a little bit of mismatch   here because we changed the units. If you're 
using the original plan in feet and inches,   you might not get this gap. Let's dim the image 
a bit, select it, go here to the Data Properties,   check the Opacity box and drag this 
down to something like 0.25. We've   got our setup, now let's get to work.
Select the walls by clicking on the object or   on the outliner and tab into Edit Mode. I'm going 
to delete these three vertices. So, select them,   by default, you have the box selection. Select 
these and to add to the selection, hold shift   and select this one, X. And the menu appears with 
the item you last used selected to improve your   workflow. Click on Vertices and we're left with 
one single vertex that's exactly on the world   origin. We're going to draw the plan by extruding 
this vertex with E. So, select the vertex,   E to extrude and this creates a new vertex joined 
by an edge. We want to move this in the X axis,   so press X to constrain the movement and now we 
can just type the amount. In this case, it's 7 m,   so we type 7 and click or Enter to confirm.
Now we make this wall, but there is a wall   intersecting here, so we want to make this segment 
and then this segment so that we have a vertex to   extrude later. Same thing, select the vertex, E, 
Y and we type 4, Enter. Then again, E, Y, 3.6.   You'll note that if we add these dimensions, 1.8 + 
1.8 + 3.1 results in 6.7, which is not exactly 7,   which is the 4.1 plus 2.9. And the reason here 
is that there are walls and they have thickness.   And we have to account for the thickness of those 
walls. I'll show you how to do that in a second.   Let's finish this first. With the vertex selected, 
we continue, E, X - 3.1, Enter, E, X - 1.8, Enter,   E, X - 1.8, Enter. So, we'll just move this 
vertex to the left so that it matches with   this one. To do that, there is a very neat trick 
that they implemented, I think in version 4.2,   which is the Base Point. Make sure that your 
Snapping here is set to Increment. Even if it's   turned off, the Base Point function uses whatever 
you have selected here. With this vertex selected,   G to move it, X. Now we turn on Base Point with 
B and we need to select the start and end points.   The start is the vertex we're moving and the end 
is the vertex that we're referencing. Note that   the cursor changes to a square when you're 
selecting a vertex, an hourglass when it's   an edge and a circle when it's a face. Click and 
click. We continue E, Y - 3.6, Enter. And to close   the outline, we select these two vertices 
and press F to make an edge between them.  We're done outlining and there's a couple of 
things. The first one is that this is a wall,   but there's no measurement. So, in that case, you 
would ask the client or you can just eyeball it.   I usually round to the nearest 10th of a meter, 
so let's do that. We don't have a vertex here, so   to cut this edge, the shortcut is Control + R and 
you'll see a vertex appear exactly in the middle   of the edge. Click to accept. Now let's zoom in 
and grab it with G. Then if you want to slide the   vertex along the edge, press G again. Our Snapping 
here is still on Increment, so we can just go   ahead and change it to grid so that it will align 
to the grid. Now, G, G, if the Snapping is turned   off, we can turn it on temporarily by holding 
the Control key. Let's place it here. We can also   adjust these vertices to match the position of 
the plan. Select them, G, G, control, let's place   it here. G, G, control, and let's place it here.
One thing that you should know is that in a later   step, we're gonna tell Blender to what direction 
will the walls gain their thickness. So ideally,   you want each vertex to be on either side 
of the walls. In this case, because I know   that there's a lot of rounding errors, I'm not 
gonna do it. But in a real project where all the   measurements are correct, the vertex would have 
to be aligned to one of the sides of the wall.  Let's take a short commercial break to help 
support the channel and I'll be right back.  We're back. Now let's make the walls that go into 
the house. Let's start with this one and then   we'll just go around. Select this vertex and same 
procedure. E, X, and I will add the bedroom and   bath. So 1.8 plus 3.1 is 4.9. And we can press 
the - key at any point, even after typing the   number, -. Enter to confirm. And I don't have the 
information about the thickness of these walls,   but I do know that this wall and this wall sit on 
the same vertical axis. So, I'm just gonna do the   base point again. Change this to Increment G, X, 
B. Now I click here and then I click here. And of   course, if this was client work, I would ask about 
the thickness of each of the walls and all of this   would match perfectly. Also note that for now, 
we're ignoring windows and doors. Now there   are three walls that go up here. So, we need to 
create vertices along this edge. So, control + R,   click. Now let's say that we want this distance 
between the vertices to be exactly 1.8 m. The   easiest way to do it is to move the vertex all the 
way here and then move it back again by exactly   the number that you want. So, select it, G, G and 
slide it all the way. By default, you cannot go   beyond the next vertex. So just place it here. 
Now G, X, 1.8. Remember not to extrude vertices   along existing edges. If instead of dividing this 
edge with control + R as we did before, I were to   extrude either of these vertices with E and then 
I press X to constrain. Let's say that I place it   here. It looks like it's okay, but it's actually 
not. I now have two overlapping edges here and   that will cause a bunch of problems in the future. 
So I'm going to delete it and I'll divide the edge   with control + R. Now I'm just going to align 
it here. So, I want to change this back to grid,   G, G, control and I'll place it here.
Now these two walls have the same length, so,   we can extrude these two vertices simultaneously. 
But if we use the normal shortcut E, it extrudes   the whole edge creating a plane. But then we have 
to remove this edge and that's an unnecessary   step. So instead, we select the vertices and 
bring up the Vertex menu with control + V.   You'll see a bunch of stuff that we can do 
with the vertices. As a side note, control + E   brings up the Edge menu and control + F, the Face 
menu. And we use all of those quite often. Okay,   so control + V >> Extrude Vertices, Y to constrain 
the movement. And here's a nice trick available   since 4.2 I think. When you're in the middle 
of a Transform operation, like moving vertices,   the navigation is disabled. But sometimes you 
need to zoom in or pan during an operation. So,   if you hold the Alt key, you can navigate like 
you usually do. We can pan and we can zoom.  I don't know this dimension either, so I'll just 
align to the grid by holding Control. Another   trick, when you're aligning to the grid, if you 
also hold Shift, you can align to the minor grid.   You can see the information at the top left that 
now we're moving in hundredths of a meter instead   of tenths. This way I can align the vertices to 
the middle of the square. Now we need to make a   wall here, so control + R, click. I'm just going 
to align the rest to the grid to do it faster.   Now you want to extrude this to the right in 
a way that it aligns to this vertex. So E, X,   we'll use Base Point. B, click this vertex, then 
this one. Okay, we need to cancel that and turn   the Snapping back to Increment. Now, since 
we extruded this vertex, even if we canceled   the move, the second vertex still exists. So be 
careful not to extrude it again to avoid doubled   vertices. So now G to move, X, B, now we click 
and we click here. And now to make an edge between   these two, we select them and press F.
Now these are actually sliding doors,   so we just need to connect these vertices and 
these vertices. So, we can just do it with F   and then these, F. Great. Now here, control + 
R, G, G, control, and we'll place it there. E,   Y, B, we click here and here. Select 
these, F to make an edge. And to finish,   we just need an edge here. I think we're done.
If you feel that you might have doubled vertices   somewhere, you can select all with A, M for 
the Merge menu >> By Distance. And it will show   here if you deleted any vertices. Now save your 
work with control + S, I'm gonna call it FPTut,   Enter. Now let's tab out to Object Mode. And we 
want to duplicate this with shift + D and right   click to cancel the move. That will be our floor. 
So, let's rename it here to “Floor”. Now let's   make the floors faces quickly. So, with the floor 
selected, tab into Edit Mode. And now it depends   if you’ll want different floor materials for 
different rooms. You want to make separate faces   for rooms that have different materials. And you 
don't want overlapping faces. So, for example, if   you do a face here and then I do a face here, and 
now you’ll see that this face is overlapping this   one. And you can see that by moving this vertex. 
We don't want that, so control + Z. So here in the   mudroom, I want the same floor to be in the closet 
than in the rest of the room. So, I don't need   this geometry. I select the vertex and delete it.
Let's hide the walls for now because since   we can still see that geometry, it might be 
confusing. So, by clicking here on this eye,   you can hide that object in the viewport. Now 
let's do the same thing in the bedroom. We   don't need a different material for the floor 
in the closet, so we can delete this vertex.  It's also a good idea to tidy up and remove any 
unnecessary vertices. An easy way to do that   is by turning on Auto Merge with this button. 
Now if we overlap a vertex on top of another,   they will merge. So, select this one, G, G, 
slide it all the way, click. And now it's   gone. We can make sure that it's actually 
gone by clicking away to unselect it,   now selecting it back and moving it. There should 
be no vertex beneath it. Let's do this one too,   and this one. If we wanted to separate the kitchen 
and living room materials, we would need to cut   this edge and create a new edge here to separate 
the spaces, but I'm not gonna do that. Okay, let's   be good and do this one too, and this one, this 
one too. Okay, this is as clean as we can do it.  Now for each room, we're gonna select all 
of the vertices that make it up and press F   to make a face. So that, bathroom, mud room, and 
now the living room and kitchen combo, F. Lastly,   tab out, and we're gonna duplicate the floor. 
Shift + D, right click to cancel, and we're   gonna rename this to “Background”. Now with the 
Background selected, we tab into Edit Mode, and   this is gonna be a plane surrounding the house. We 
delete every vertex inside it, A to select all, X   Faces. Let's also turn off the floor for now. Now 
if it's not selected, we select everything with   A and E to extrude everything. While the move is 
still active, we press S to scale. Now we click,   and we have a background with a cut where the 
floor will be to prevent Z-fighting. Now if we   ever need to make this bigger at any point, we 
don't scale the object because the hole will   also scale. We need to go to Edit Mode, alt + 
left click on any of these edges to select the   whole outer edge, and then we scale that with S.
Tab out, let's hide the background and unhide   the walls. With the wall selected, tab, now we're 
going to extrude in Z. So, we select all with A,   E, and now Z to constrain to the Z axis, 
and we type the height of the walls. So,   let's say 2.3 meters, Enter.
Now we need to make sure that all   these walls are facing the right direction. Right 
now, all of our walls are two-dimensional faces,   and faces have a front and a back side. We can 
show their orientation by clicking here on the   Overlays menu and checking Face Orientation. The 
front of every face is blue and the back is red.   By default, Blender uses a very saturated red 
color that's too bright to be comfortable. So,   if you want to change it, you can go to Edit >> 
Preferences >> Themes, look for the 3D viewport   and expand it, and scroll down until you find 
Face Orientation Back. I just desaturated the red   color, but you can use any color that you like.
Now to give the walls thickness, we're going to   use a Modifier. Modifiers change the geometry 
of an object non-destructively, which is super   powerful. So, let's go ahead and click on the 
Modifiers tab and Add Modifier. Start typing   “Solidify” and click on it or just select it 
with the arrows and press Enter. Change the   mode from Simple to Complex and the thickness to 
whatever thickness you want. I'll type 0.15, since   I want my walls to be 15 centimeters thick. All 
right, now we have thick walls. The modifier   generated all of this extra geometry for us 
and we can change the thickness at any point.  Now we go to Top view and analyze our walls. Let 
me hide the image for a second. You'll notice   that some of the walls are incorrect. In my case, 
this, this, and this wall, probably this one too,   have a weird shape. It's not straight, so we're 
going to fix them. Now note that which walls are   wrong will depend on how you extruded the 
vertices. So, if you're following along,   but not exactly, you might get a different thing, 
but the fix is going to be the same. Let's turn   the modifier off by clicking on this monitor 
icon here. This shows our original geometry   before the modifier. Whenever we have walls 
with more than one segments like this one,   we need to make sure that all of the segments 
are facing the same way and that the red side is   facing the direction to where the wall will gain 
its thickness. Let's get the plan back again. So,   for example, this wall should gain its thickness 
to the left. So, this face should be red,   which in this case is the other way around. Now 
sometimes, and I'm not sure when this happens,   it's possible that you cannot see your floor plan 
if you are in a perspective view. If this happens   to you, select it, go here to the data properties 
and make sure that both Show In Orthographic and   Perspective are checked. If Perspective is not 
checked, you'll only be able to see the plan when   you're in orthographic view, which you can easily 
change by clicking on this button. In any case,   I want it to be visible in both, so I'm just going 
to check it. Okay, now with the wall selected,   tab into Edit Mode, press 3 on the keyboard, 
not the numbers pad, or click on this icon   for Face Select Mode. Now we select the faces by 
clicking on them instead of selecting vertices.  Now all of the outer walls should be blue because 
we want the walls to go inside of the house. So,   if on the outside of the house, you see any wall 
that's red, select it by just clicking on it,   shift + N, and it should now turn blue. Next, 
we need to make sure that the inner walls are   oriented in the right way. So, these three seem to 
be right. The thickness of the wall should go that   way. So, we change this one, shift + N inside. 
And we continue to check. This one's correct,   this one's correct, this one isn't, so shift 
+ N, that's good. And this one is also wrong,   so shift + N, this one, I think it could 
go either way because of the way we did it,   so I'm just going to leave it there. And this 
one should go this way, so that's correct. And   it seems to be that we are good. So again, make 
sure that any wall that has several segments   has all of the segments facing the same way. 
So, this one, this one, and this one. Okay,   everything seems to be correct now. So, let's go 
again to modifiers and turn it back on, go to Top   view, and just review every wall to make sure that 
everything looks good, which seems to be the case.  Okay, now that we fixed everything, note that all 
of our geometry is now blue. Both sides of every   wall are now blue. And that's because the solidify 
modifier is actually generating new geometry. So,   this wall has now this face, which is the original 
face that we created in the previous step, but   also this face on the top, this face on the other 
side, and the one below. And now if we actually   go into the wall, you'll see that inside all of 
the faces are red, which makes sense, this is the   backside of each of these faces. So, everything 
looks good, we can now go ahead and turn the Face   Orientation overlay off, we don't need it anymore, 
and we can also show the Background and the Floor.   And this is what we have so far.
Save your work with control + S,   and then Save As with control + shift + S, 
and call this file the same thing with an   identifier at the end of the name. I'll just 
call it FPTutB, Enter, Enter again. We wanna   have our history of files, in case we ever mess 
up, we can always go back to our previous file.   That way we don't lose all of our work.
Now the final note here is that if you   wanted some of the walls to be thinner, you 
would need to create a separate Walls object,   and change the thickness of the Solidify Modifier 
of that object to a different thing. With the   solidify modifier, there's no way to give 
different thicknesses to different walls.  Okay, if you followed all the way, great job. 
You've used some basic modeling, navigation, and   all of the transforms. A bunch of more advanced 
tips and tricks, and even modifiers, so well   done! In part two, we'll be adding windows and 
doors, and furnishing the plan, so see you there.