In this video, I'm going to show you a construction estimating workflow that I run on real projects using a combination of Excel, Claude for Excel, Claude co-work, and some pre-built Claude skills. I'll go through exactly where where I rely on Claude through the heavy lifting and where I won't use it as all at all and where I'll simply use it as an assistant. Because the biggest trap I'm seeing people fall into when using Claude for estimating is overusing it. And that's coming from somebody who absolutely loves Claude. Now, I'm sure you've heard the analogy that having access to an AI model like Claude or ChatGPT is like having access to a room full of the most brilliant, smartest graduates. But, I think the example falls a little short. Because you have to understand these graduates or these AI models that we're using, they don't have any common sense, they have amnesia, and they don't learn unless you explicitly tell them to learn and remember things. And in the world of AI, there's a concept to explain why they fall at the most they fail at the most basic tasks. And it's referred to as the theory of mind. And it's the ability of these models to actually understand and to model what someone is thinking and what they're trying to achieve versus what they are specifying in the question. Now, as people, this is something we do automatically and intuitive, but the way these models work is they're basically next token predictors. They look at the question you ask and they predict the most likely response to it. They don't genuinely understand what you're trying to achieve, and that is why they don't seem like they have common sense. Now, there was this example going around on social media when Opus 4.7 released a couple weeks ago and it was meant to be this, you know, super smart PhD level intelligence and you could ask it the question, "My car is dirty, it needs a good washing. The local car wash is only a 5-minute walk away. Should I drive or walk there?" And then the model kept telling people to walk. Now, to be fair to Claude, I was retesting this and it wasn't it was giving the correct answer that you should drive. Because clearly, you have to wash your car, you have to take your car to the car wash. So, when I was actually testing this, it was answering correctly, and fair enough, I don't know if they've put something in the actual model system prompt that forces it to answer incorrectly, but I tested it a couple weeks ago, and it was doing the same as what we were seeing on social media, that it was saying to actually walk to the car wash, but now it is answering correctly. So, I'm not sure if they've done some update where they've changed the system prompt behind it. So, now it is instructed to answer correctly, but it is a good example of how these models don't have this sort of common sense that sits behind them. Now, I've run into this exact problem multiple times when trying to use Claude for different estimating tasks. For example, I was working on a battery project, and I had a really detailed commissioning estimate for the project, and I wanted Claude's help to check it. Now, so I uploaded my commissioning estimate, I gave it access to all the project documents and background information, and my overall construction estimate, and I asked it, "Can you know, can you check through and make sure nothing is missing from my commissioning estimate?" And what it did is it came back with 50 different recommendations, tons and tons of sort of stuff that was already covered in the construction cost, for example, the terminating the HP cables, or stuff that was built into my overhead cost. Now, this is someone who was an estimator who did understand the project would just intuitively understand this. I guess the point I'm trying to make is it's easy to get caught up in how smart these models seem, and then to over-rely to do tasks without understanding that these are just models that basically try and predict what you're most likely to say. They don't understand anything about you, your project, your workflows. So, I guess the way you should be using these models for things like estimating is you basically want to always narrowly define what you want AI to do. You give it the background information it needs for the task, you define the process you want it to follow, and then you specify the output template you want it in. And the only way you can actually do that is by having a deep understanding of the project and the estimating process yourself. You want to use Claude through the heavy lifting, the time-consuming tasks, when you're the one actually still it steering and directing it, and you have this deep understanding of the process it's actually following. Okay, so now for the rest of the video, I'm going to get into the three phases of how I would actually use Claude for estimating and what tasks I would do myself. I'll go through the different tools and the specific workflow I follow. Okay, so phase one is to understand the project scope. And here I more or less use Claude like an assistant to help me summarize a few things, but I do the bulk of the heavy lifting myself because it sucks, but the first thing you do when you get a new tender package, you just have to spend a couple of hours going through it, reading the drawings, reading the scope of works. I don't think there's any real AI smarts you can do here because if you don't invest the time at the start of the project to properly understanding the scope of the project, what your client's asking you to price, I know a lot of people here will use Claude to do fancy summaries and look at those summaries, but honestly, for the sake of a couple of hours for million multi-million dollar construction projects, you should read through the drawings yourself and actually understanding what your client is asking you to price. Yes, Claude can make you a summary, but I don't think you should rely on it to make you a summary. You should look at the original documents, the original scope of works, the original specifications, the original drawings. At least spend a couple of hours going through it yourself and develop a very clear picture of what your client is asking you to because once you build that knowledge for yourself, it is going to be a thousand times easier to steer Claude to do the correct thing. Now, what I will do here is I'll set up a new Co-work project within the folder I have the construction drawings, specifications, and the scope of works. So if you don't know how to do that, you simply go to Co-Work, click new project, and then you choose the folder you have all the project documentation in. Now, the reason a project is better than a standalone chat with Co-Work is because I just type this construction project example, help me prepare an estimate, is because well, one, it's easy to access all your past chats, and then you can also explicitly tell things to remember stuff as you go through and create these different chats. So, you can, for example, you get it to run a task, you can say, "Please remember this or note it down for future." And again, it's just easier to access a project and then to start a new chat rather than looking through all your history of different chats. The next thing I'll do is always run my project indexer workflow, which what it it does is it goes through all my drawing specifications, scope of works, and develops my 0. 0. AI context folder, which is which has the markdown representation of all the individual drawings, a summary of the different drawings, and basically turns my entire set of projects into easy to access AI information. So, going forward, when I ask it queries about the drawings, it'll answer much more quickly and much more accurately. Now, if you are fancy, you can also get it to set up your Claude.md, which is the set of markdown files or the text that every time you ask AI to do an instruction, so it's basically like the system prompt that will go into every single one of these projects. You can set up your Claude.md file and basically to pull in all the relevant information from your business context folder. So, the way I've been doing that is I actually use Notion to manage my business context, and you have all your business background information within here, such as your standard operating procedures, your data, your production rate library, your resource rates, all your cost information, and basically common instructions around how you want it to do different tasks. So, when you actually run the project index the skill, it sets up your cloud.md file, your project.md file, and any background information it needs to pull from your business context. So, basically, what this is doing is it's making your your files easy for AI to read, and it's pulling in all the necessary background information about your business and the context and information that would sit without outside of the project files. Now, as I said, I am the one who actually goes through and reads all my construction documents, and I want to create two files when I'm doing this. I want to create a clarification register. Again, I do this myself. I don't rely on AI to do this. Again, this is an example I've generated with AI, but on a real project, I would go through and basically every time I read something that doesn't make sense or it's not clear what the client's asking, I would note these down as my own personal clarifications of things I want to check. The second document I'll create is I want to generate the actual pricing schedule. So, the actual list of items that we're going to price and how we're going to present our client our our quote to the client. Because again, pricing schedule, in my opinion, is the most important document within the estimating workflow, because it's how you break down your project scope and it's how you present your price to the client. So, every single thing you want included in your price or you want to make it clear that is included in your price, you should so you should show in your actual returnable schedule. Now, again, I do the first cut of both of these documents myself, and then, once I've done that, so once I've done that, I will then get AI to check my work. And I'll say something like, "Can you review the clarification register using requirements extraction." So, requirements extraction is a skill I built that goes through this project context, goes through my zero.ai context folder, goes through extracts all the requirements that client is asking us to price. It determines what requirements are confusing and contradictory. It generates clarifications of this, but again, I've done the first cut of it, so it's actually checking what I've already done. Because, for example, I might have some clarifications I want to raise that don't actually make sense and shouldn't be clarifications to be made because they were outlined in the scope somewhere else. So, basically, AI is doing its own sweep and it's checking my work. But again, I've done the first cut myself because I think this is such an important task to do yourself. And it is also checking my returnable schedule that I have generated and making sure it actually covers all the scope. All of these workflows that I run on every project I do, I convert them into pre-built skills. So, for example, I have the project indexer skill, I have the requirements extraction skill, I have contract review skills, a whole lot of other ones where I want to capture a pre-built workflow I've done. If you want access to any of these skills, you can join up for Contractor OS, which is our AI community page where we offer unlimited one-on-one calls, support, weekly AI workshops, and we've got a library that is growing with over 30 different construction skills, which basically help you to implement all of these processes very easily yourself in your business. You can download and install them and set them up, for example, we've got the project indexer skill and a drawing analyzer skill, and all you do is download it and install it in Claude or ChatGPT or whichever AI model you use. Okay, so that is the output of my phase one, which is understand scope. I've gone through the documents myself, I've generated my own list of clarifications, I've come up with a suggested pricing schedule. Now, I'm going and I've got AI to cross-check this. I've got a list of questions I can send to the client, and I have a structure around which I want to prepare my estimate. Now, I actually do my estimating in an Excel workbook. Again, you can access this in Contractor OS. I'll put a link for it in the video description, but what this is it is a pricing schedule which has a project summary. It has a page for entering our indirect costs. It has a structure for putting in our direct cost. It links to labor, plant, material, and subcontract libraries. What I use AI for next is I have a skill that runs to basically take my template and populate it with my pricing schedule, the structure around which I want to return the estimate, and it also clears out any direct costs or information that is from previous projects. So, basically all this is doing is instead of me having to manually go and edit my pricing schedule and deal with any annoying formula issues, I've just built this into a workflow that creates the pricing schedule and sets up my direct cost. Okay, so we've set up our pricing schedule. The next thing we need to know are our actual quantities. Now, the thing I think with quantity takeoffs that everyone is getting wrong about our quantity takeoffs, the actual annoying thing, now this is my opinion, I think a lot of people would probably disagree with me on this, but I find the actual annoying thing about doing a quantity takeoff is setting up all your assemblies for which you're going to then go and measure. By the time you've actually set up all your assemblies and customize them to the depth of the slab, the thickness of the slab, the certain type of wall material, the painting, all that stuff. By the time you've actually gone and customized these with all the correct sub items, so all the correct secondary quantities, that is to me the time-consuming thing. When you're actually going and measuring stuff from the drawings, it genuinely, I find it doesn't really take that long. It's this process of going through and actually customizing your assembly library that consumes tons of time. So, my recommendation is to have a base assembly library. So, you have some sort of assembly library that you use on all your projects for walls, concrete, earthworks, where you have simple standard breakdowns. You then build a skill. So, I built in a skill a skill called assemblies, which basically takes my standard list of assembly items. It looks at my zero.ai context. It looks at the specific materials called out in the drawings, and it customizes this to my specific project, and it gives me an assembly list broken down with the correct sort of depths, volumes, the correct sort For example, if you have a slab, it'll customize it to the actual reinforcement type shown on the drawings. Now, obviously, you have to cross-check this. AI, we all know, isn't reliable at reading things on drawings, but instead of actually using AI to do the counting, we're using AI to extract the material specifications and text tags, and basically customize this assembly list to the list of assemblies required on the project. So, maybe I'm explaining this in a really confusing way, but basically, in your templates assembly library, you would have a standard breakdown of a typical blockwork wall. So, that is your typical assembly. What you're doing you're what you're getting AI to do here is, say for example, wall type three has these specific material requirements. You're all you're doing is getting AI to basically customize your standard wall assembly and turn it into the wall type three assembly, which is shown on this specific set of construction drawings. Because wall type three isn't a generic universal term. It is specific to this construction project. So, what you're using AI to do is basically take look at the look at the information on the drawings, which is really just going to be material specifications and text tags it can extract, and turn your standard set. So, for example, you might have a standard assembly for a slab on ground. You're using AI to customize it to the type of mesh, the specific requirements. But, your template assembly already has all of the productivity rates and information you want to use. Now, unfortunately, ZZ takeoff does not yet allow you to import an Excel to set up a template of to actually import your assemblies, but they've told me this is a feature they're working on and it's going to be released shortly. So, what you have to do is you basically Again, you can use other takeoff software, but what you have to do is you have to basically copy in your assembly list. So, I copy my assembly list that AI generated and I paste it in and it has the formulas, the wastage percentages, and then I go add takeoff. And then I move all of these under the assembly item. Then, once you've actually set that up, so you've imported all your assemblies, all you really have to do is do the actual measurements on the drawings, which just doesn't take that long. I mean, it is, I guess, relatively time-consuming and hopefully eventually AI is going to be able to do this task, but currently it's just not reliable at doing these sorts of quantity takeoffs, so it's better to just do it manually. And I realized I recorded that when my head was over the takeoff area. Then, all you do is you simply do your actual measurements manually. Un- unfortunately, AI, from what I've seen, isn't reliable at this step, so it's something we still have to do manually, but here's hoping that eventually this whoop this step can be automated too. Okay, next, once you actually built your entire list of takeoffs, I would then go and actually export this as a CSV file. So this is your actual list of take-offs, your bill of materials, your labor hours, and then I would import this into Cloud. And we import this into Cloud Co-work and say, "Using my assembly library, populate my Excel estimate with this data using my estimating workflow." And my estimating workflow is what actually takes this format. It already knows the structure this data is in, and it will populate and enter this into my direct cost. So my assemblies give me my entire bill of quantities, my labor, plant, materials, and subcontract costs. Then Cloud goes and enters this data into my direct cost. Importantly, I get it to flag any rates where it does not know the rate. So on my actual tabs, which link to this direct cost sheet, so for example, uh this activity of set out Oh, no, that's not a good example. Labor is not a good one. But if you say this hoarding plywood panel, 12 units at a rate of $35. If it does not know this rate, it will flag that it does not know this rate, and I might have to get quotes from subcontractors, or I might have to or I might have to make an assumption around it. But I make it explicit within this estimating workflow that when it actually populates this data, it's flagging any rates it doesn't know. Again, you'll see the way we're using AI is we're simply using it to basically do the time-consuming moving data from one spreadsheet into another spreadsheet. It's doing the task I know it can do reliably, I know it can do accurately, and we're not relying on it to do, you know, complex judgment and reasoning. It's always just moving information around. Now, if I get rates or quotes from subcontractors, I won't use Claude work to do that. I will use Claude for Excel to do those tasks. Now, the one thing to know about Claude for Excel is it isn't like it's a standalone feature. So, if you have this Claude MD file that gives background about the project and all this, Claude for Excel can't access this. Claude for Excel is the basic model. It knows stuff about spreadsheets, but doesn't know anything about construction. That is why instead of having a Claude.md, I always have this AI instructions tab on my workbook, which tells Claude the structure of the workbook and what information is where. So, for example, if I want to upload a quote and let's imagine I attach a quote, I'll say following the AI instructions tab, please update my material rates with this quote. Then you just copy in the quote and Claude updates the relevant materials. But again, it understands how the workbook works because I've got this AI instructions tab built within it. Now, I've spoken about how to use AI for procurement. I've done another video on that, so I won't cover it, but if you do need to get quotes, then again, I have spoken about like a procurement workflow and procurement packaging and exactly how to use AI, basically getting it to reformat your historic examples, but I'll put a link for that in the video description cuz that's a much more detailed workflow. And here, I just want to focus on the estimating process. Okay, the next thing to talk about is once we've done our direct costs, we have our indirect costs. So, direct costs are the costs of the physical construction work. Direct costs are the overall costs for managing the project. Now, the key input to any direct costs will be you'll have your standard list of direct costs that you include on all projects, but a key input as well will be the duration of the project. There's some very easy ways to estimate this using total labor hours. So, for example, if you're a predominantly self-performed business, you can just look at the total number of labor hours, assume a normal size crew, and effectively forecast a duration. So, for a self-performed business, I don't think you need any any AI to do that. You can just use that simple approach and then allocate the relevant indirect cost, which I assume would be pretty similar for any project you do. If you have a subcontract business, you can't really use this method and in which case I would We built a skill for basically building project schedules, which says using this skill create an an estimated duration for my construction project. Basically, what that does is it goes through it goes to your actual business data library. It looks at your standard durations for different tasks and how long different tasks have taken on different project and the overall sequence. Again, this is a super oversimplified example. You could have a much more elaborate and complex library. And what it does is it looks at the scope of the project, understands the work involved, and basically builds this out into a project schedule. So, you can make some reasonable estimate of this duration of the project and then appropriately allocate your recurring indirect cost, which is going to be the biggest cost for the project. Sorry, not the biggest cost, the biggest indirect cost for the project will be your recurring overhead costs like your project manager, your salary, your construction manager, and basically how long you have these recurring roles going for. Then, the final step in this entire process is you basically use AI to generate a letter of offer. You have some standard letters of offers with your inclusions and exclusions. You basically get AI to populate this. You make sure in your original requirements extraction and your original clarifications you did, that basically this letter of offer matches your pricing schedule and exactly what you want included in the scope is explicitly stated as what's included and what you're excluding, you explicitly list out as being excluded. That's the most important thing with the letter of offer is if we go back to this original step when we did our understand scope step is our requirements register where we identified all the requirements within the project documents and drawings. These are covered either in our estimates or excluded in our letter of offer. So, there's nothing in the scope of works or what the client has asked us to do. So, basically they can't catch us out in any way. It's either in our estimate or excluded in our letter of offer. That is I think one of the most important principles with estimating and it's how you the letter of offer is basically how you ground the submission. So, you are pricing what you actually want to be pricing and you can't get caught out with any scope gaps. Then the final step in this process is I actually run a what is I call a reconciliation skill which basically looks at your letter of offer. It looks at the original requirements. It looks at your estimate and just does another check on this to make sure anything that is the client is asking you to price is either excluded in your letter of offer or included in the scope. It's a very simple system. It's very systematic. I find it works really well. As I said at the start, if you do want access to the skills that we've built, then you can join contractor OS and we all again, it's also got lots of one-on-one calls and support. Again, we are very focused and we're extremely focused on making sure that AI making AI genuinely useful for construction companies. That is the problem we're trying to solve and that in contractor OS is the way we're trying to do it. So, if you do want to check that out, feel free to check out the link in the description or if you do want to dive more into using AI for scheduling or AI for procurement, I'll put some other links in the video description that hopefully you find useful.