In this video guide, we're going to see how we can export from Blender and import in other software like Unreal Engine for interaction and much much more. And so right here um I'm using a scene that I prepared for the Blender video course. And if you're interested, you'll find this uh in the in the channel. So this is an architecture containing a lot of models and textures and um stuff. So cameras, lights. So my suggestion when you want to export in whatever application is first of all go to file and go down here to external data and pack all the resources. So this way it's going to be uh packed with everything that is needed in another application. And of course you you always need to do some some work but this will make probably things a little bit uh easier. And perhaps you also want to clean up first like purge unused data that you don't need. So before you pack and save so that basically uh you have everything in one blender file. But that's not enough. We need to go to file export. And the format that you can use is FBX and uh GB. Now in another video we talked about the FBX. So in this video I'm going to talk about the GB. So, uh, choose GB export. And I'm saving this into this folder right here. And, uh, here you can choose what to import or not. And, uh, format, choose GB. So, everything is going to be in one file instead of having like a separate uh, file, 3D file, and the textures. So again this should make something a little bit faster but one way or or another you need to work in a real engine but anyway so uh you can choose uh also one thing I would do is apply the modifiers otherwise like arrays and other modifiers that you used in Blender will not work in um in in the in a real engine on any other uh software. So make sure that you you make meshes for geometry and for example if you're using geometry nodes and stuff try to bake save pack everything apply everything etc etc you can choose if you want animation bones and stuff like that or just you know turn it off. Okay once you finished with the selection of what you need what you don't need just click on export glTF 2.0 Z and wait for that to be exported. Should take well depend on the scene but this is a really big scene also has interior so it takes quite a while to export from Blender and also import in Unreal Engine. So I will open now a real engine and in the meanwhile uh if you want and you don't you never use blender you can download it free and uh it's open source from the uh website also a real engine you will need epic games for that which is an application which uh will help you to install and launch the latest Unreal Engine uh version which uh at this time is 5.7 and we created a video course uh in Unreal Engine 5 in the channel and if you're looking for this course in the channel. Just type Unreal uh video course. Try to be um careful in the spelling. So you'll find the the video course with a lot of videos on many many topics and also for Blender you will find video course among many others. You can check the playlist. Check the English playlist of course. And so here I am in in uh Unreal Engine and I don't want to create a new project. you you can create a new project and I created a new project using just a blank document. So it kind of empty landscape with no code nothing. But in Unreal Engine you can do third person uh interaction, you can use vehicles, you can use virtual reality and uh first person etc etc. So you can actually interact and navigate the scene. So uh I chose again the blank and you just need need to put a name down here and just create a new project. I'm not doing this right now because it takes time. So I'm just jumping ahead. You need to wait few minutes but I've already create one which is um uh this one right here. So I've made some tests with FBX and um with the with GB. They both work in a way, but you you always need to fix things one way or the other uh other times. So hopefully there are other formats that work better like u we're going to investigate that later on. So I'm going to go with this and I'm going to open it up. Again, I'm doing this because in in this scene I've already imported the file. So it takes a lot of time if the scene is too heavy. So, make sure you have like at least half an hour. And by the way, the GLB packed file is really heavy. It's kind of like almost half a gigabyte. And this is the scene that uh is the blank scene, but here I created more uh levels. So well anyway uh to import you can go here and import content from here or you go to file and go to import in the level and just uh you know import the file. So just pick the the file that you saved. In my case I've saved this in the export folder called this one here GB. You can see it's pretty heavy compared to the FBX. This is the packed FBX and this is the packed GB. So I hope that you know you will find more data if you import like this rather than the FBX. But either way you need to do some work. So just open I'm not going to do it right now. Just import and just wait because it's going to take a while. Now I've already done this in another layer. So I'm just going to open an existing layer which is um the lesson 30. Okay, let me see if I find it here in the recent layers. And there you go. So this is this is what I have imported. And well some textures are there. This is also uh kind of a PBR more advanced material which has been imported using GB. Also the glass doesn't look bad. So, compared to FBX, I think I would choose GLB. It works a little bit better. It lets me do less things. And of course, I can navigate around and water. I need to recreate this. Maybe it didn't take the bump because I think I use a bump procedural map for this. So, use pixel textures rather than procedural maps. And then I also imported models from Sketchvab, which works pretty good. and especially models with the envelope textures they they work pretty good. So you can use um uh for example substance uh ZBrush to create models and things like that. Okay. Now when you are in a real engine you can also animate doors opening things like that. Also here materials are looking good and there's some flickering because there is the the base of the the Unreal world which is right there. It's kind of a piece of a landscape. So if I need to turn it off to turn off that flickering and still I think there are like too many pavements here. So and we don't have a texture here. So there's a missing textures or maybe it's calculate still calculating. So well make sure you you check what is missing. Try to recreate it directly here in u in a real engine. And again you have an entire course for that. This looks really cool. This is a painting and a frame created again in Blender. So, yeah, we need to do fixing and stuff like that, but we can definitely do it. And we'll find here all the the various meshes that we created in Blender. So, this will be all for this uh video. I hope you enjoy this. And if you did, subscribe to the channel to stay updated. Join the channel to support us. Check out other courses and video guides.