Hi everybody. In this video, we're going to take a look at the creation of this scene here in Twinmotion. I'll talk about how to set up the environment, how to add foliage, and then talk about the lighting and camera settings that you might need to use. We'll also introduce two new AI enhancers, V That and Loopa AI. I'll just show you how those work really quickly, and then we'll bring those renders into Photoshop, and I'll run through the post-production with Camera Raw. All right. Let's go ahead and get into it. All right everybody, so here is the home that we're going to work on. It's really cool-looking model from the warehouse, and it should contrast nicely the white kind of concrete facade with a lot of the green and browns of the natural piney environment that we're going for. We also have a walkway here. This is made using basic primitive objects within Twinmotion, and let's first start by adding the foliage and building up the actual ground. Now, when it comes to the ground, we're going for a piney forest look, so we will need to go to Megascans, and I'm going to go to 3D assets, and I'm going to move over to the right here, cuz this is how I prefer to do this. Let's go to nature, and we're going to look for a mix of embankments and rocks. Now, we've got moxie and root, they should work pretty well. And what I like to do is basically kind of go shopping for terrain. So, I'll find the ones that I like, I'll drag a whole bunch of them into my scene, and once they're in your scene, it's much easier to work by quite simply just duplicating these. So, like I said, go shopping first, get as many sort of embankment objects as you can. We don't necessarily need the tundra rocky ground for the path, because we already have a what will be a kind of concrete path, but these tundra rocky ground, like these guys, are pretty nice. Uh pro tip, if you're working with these and they seem a little bit too high, you can always come into the scale tool and just scale them downwards. You can also change the materials on these if you wanted something different, just make sure to put it on a triplanar projection as well. We can also go back and let's see under the root options if we have something else that we can work with and just drag out as many of these as you want into your scene and we can also hit uh nine on the keyboard and we can just scale these guys up if we grab them in the central axis right there. Okay, that's pretty nice. We're going to arrange these and scatter them all over here. But before we do that, let's set up a provisionary camera. So I'll go down to the bottom here where it says media, I'll hit plus and I'm going for social media post, so I want this to not be a well, landscape shot. You can see from left to right of horizontal. So I'll go to image right over here on the right, click on image and I'm going to change this to a width of let's do a height of 3,000 because we are going to be using some AI tools afterwards and I want to keep the image size relatively small. So height of 3,000, width of 2,000. I'm going to hit refresh above image one. I'm just going to add another one maybe from a different angle and just hit plus. There we go. Click on image one to go back to it. And under the camera here, I do want to start with a base value of 35 mm. We can change that at any point, but that'll give us kind of a good frame for our shot. And we also want to go down to the details under the lens and turn on parallelism. There we go. That looks a lot better. And I can refresh that right there. Now, when it comes to the trees, we need to go library, vegetation, trees. And in order to narrow this down, I'm looking for pine trees because we are doing a piney woods shot. And once more, what I'll do is like download the ones that I need. And even though technically a lot of these pine trees kind of come in different biomes or different geographic environments, I'm just going to download a whole bunch of them so I've got plenty to work with. I probably won't do the Italian It's a little bit too geographically specific, but things like these Austrian pine, the bishop pine, and the ponderosa, we could probably put them in a scene together comfortably, and they won't look out of place. Like I said, I like to go shopping first, make sure I've got these guys in. We can place our trees either using the scatter or brush tools, but honestly, for something like this, I might just do it by hand. But once I have these in my scene, you can see it takes a minute to sort of download them and to create the object. But once they're in your scene, it's really easy to duplicate them. So, go shopping for the pine trees and the environment assets that you need first, and then we can start scattering them all over the actual environment. If you want to do this a little bit faster, you can see we can go to our populate tools, and we can go to populate and place and paint. And then just drag in the 3D assets that we want to work with. So, I already have it here. And then I'll just grab the paintbrush, and I'm just going to paint these in. Now, this will work for the areas that aren't close to the camera where I don't want to have sort of high, you know, kind of like So, this will work really well for the places that are far away from the camera, where I don't necessarily need to have manual control. But for everything else, I still want to ensure that I'm placing these objects by hand and try to get the best from kind of each asset. So, just be mindful of that. When it comes to placing our trees, another thing we might want to do is pretty much just build four trees right beside each other. You can see I have them selected over here on the scene tree, and I'm just going to hold down shift now, and I'll use basically these four as my kind of cluster. Now, the joy of it doing this way is we still have absolute control. These are not painted on. So, I have the ability to come in here really quickly make any changes to each of these trees that I need, but at the same time it's easier than just hand placing the trees. Just build your own little four, six, or eight cluster trees and place them in your scene. Now, you notice I'm not looking through the camera lens just yet. I know that I'll need enough trees to make this environment believable. So, I'm just going to place these sort of at will and just driving down shift. And if you got four or five or six of these trees in a grouping, it means that when you look at it from eye height, you're not seeing as much of like this idea of like the same tree over and over and over again. And we can always come in here and just rotate if we need to add a little bit of variation. But, I like to do this generally by looking kind of down and just kind of, you know, grabbing these guys and placing. Now, closer to the camera, closer to the home, I am going to actually go in there and place these by hand and I'll probably place these with the camera actually set to active so I can see a little bit better of what I'm doing. Now, one last thing we also did add some really, really large These are the massive tundra rock formations. And the idea here is if you see on the just on the horizon line, they're just breaking up or hiding the horizon. You don't necessarily want these to be like way up like really big. So, just crash them into the ground and then literally crash them a little further into the ground. Anyway, this will give you a pretty good way of working when it comes to the actual trees. And we just want to keep going around building our environment. We also want to make sure that if we see any glass on the building, that what it's actually reflecting is going to be the actual trees. We want to make sure we're not reflecting that horizon line back there. And even though we'll bounce over to an AI enhancer, there's no guarantee that it will necessarily give us, you know, kind of accurate shadows based on the or accurate reflections based on the environment. Now, one of the things to keep in mind when you're adding tons and tons of these high poly trees, especially the newer trees, go down to stats in the bottom left corner, and you can see I've actually got my Twinmotion capped at 60 frames per second. So, we get pretty okay job. It's using about 90% of the graphics card and about a third of the CPU, but we've got about about I think like 6 gigs of GPU RAM available to us. So, I do recommend going to the Nvidia settings and manually capping your Twinmotion, but if things get a bit laggy, just do control P, quality, and we can bring this down to medium. If you're familiar with Twinmotion, you've been working at a long time, like medium and high is not a massive difference, but this will definitely give you a much smoother performance. Now, it's getting closer to where we need to be, especially if we click on image one. We've got some nice pine. I'm going to need some more pine trees near the camera. So, let's place those manually. So, shot one is looking pretty nice. It does need some more greenery, and we'll add a lot more ferns and some wild grasses So, I can shot two. Let's fix up the camera on shot two. Hit three on the keyboard to slow down your camera a little bit, and just position it where we think it will look okay. Don't worry about what's on the ground there. And then we'll go to our camera settings on the right, and we will again put this little fella at 35. Now, there's no You don't have to stay at 35. It's just a good starting value. A 35-mm lens is really nice. And then we scroll on down to parallelism, and again, turn that on. Now, for this little guy, we're going to bring the camera back a bit here, and uh I kind of like how these leaves are helping to frame everything. So, we'll bring this boulder down a little bit. I mean, we need more stuff here anyway to begin with. We'll We'll need a little bit more. But, that looks pretty good for now. I'll hit refresh over there, and looking at this, I'll need some stuff around here. So, I might just add another one of these. Just duplicate, drag them over. If you need to see what it looks like in the shot, just come down here to the three dots and do media preview. And then just reposition your camera. And any changes I make in the scene, we can now see how they're looking in camera. And that's actually really cool. Let's move the bark of the tree close to the camera here. This would be a great example to see if the AI can improve that. And we'll just frame it as such. Now, we need to also then just add a kind of a little bit of greenery in the shot. And then we'll work on our materials and lighting and our final touches. So, I'm going to quit the media mode. And what we need is when it comes to grassland, we generally work big to small. So, what I look for for uh first is some ferns. So, we'll go into our bushes tab. And we've got some really nice ferns here. I'm going to download pretty much all of these guys. A common fern I'm going to just It's To me, it looks kind of like a Boston fern, maybe. I'll just place these in and around the trees. You could probably paint these in, but I still prefer the the control you get by doing this kind of manually. And you tend to get ferns in the shadiest spots in an environment. So, if we look at our image one, we're going to wrap some ferns in here and maybe a little bit closer to the camera. You can also use them to help just frame the shot. So, that would look a little bit like Let's place this guy here. Or if I'll try to place it there. Let's bring this guy here. And release. And we'll drag out some more just close to the camera. You can always reposition them later. On shot two, we definitely need a little bit of foliage in here just to break up the shot and to maybe hide sort of some of these areas where you can kind of see some material or texture stretching going on. Hit nine on the keyboard to switch to the scale tool and just bring this guy down. And then let's see what else we've got in here that could work. Let's try some more different fern types. Again, just framing our shot or using the size tool over here to bring these down a little bit. And we'll do some more over here as well. Just placing them by hand. We're going to break these up a little bit more. Oh, look, we do have a Boston fern. There we go. Lovely stuff. Okay, and then we'll just keep adding these guys into our shots. Boston fern is a shade fern, memory serves. Doesn't do well in Texas, at least based on the few that I planted that pretty much went on fire. But for a shot like now, this will look pretty good. We've also got a few of the little of these grasses here. Let's see. I can go back to image two and just throw some of these out as well. Now, I want to be careful with these. I want them to be large enough to be visible. I don't necessarily want this stuff to obscure the actual house. So, we'll just keep adding these guys in, but we make sure that we're not We don't want it to be basically blocking the house or taking the visual interest away from the actual house itself. But these weeds might look pretty nice. Yeah, we'll see how that works. If it doesn't work with the render, we can get rid of them. Under image one, we'll do the same. Let's see what else we got in here. I don't necessarily want to do the Rosie canna, and obviously the agave do not fit, but we do need some grasses. So, we can go library, mega scans. We don't have to use the super high resolution mega scans if we don't want, but it's nice to be able to see what we have under the grass tab, under wild, and let's see if there's a few here that we could actually use. Now, you can always just drag this out and click the make variations button. It will take a long time, though. Honestly, I found it just as easy to just release into the scene, let them get created, and then once they're created like this, I think these will look pretty good. Let's click the medium mode. These look very nice. They're nice and wild, and I kind of like that a lot for this shot. So, let's bring these in, and we'll just start placing them all over the scene. You probably could just do this where you just drag them straight out and just kind of throw them into the ground, but you know, you can get mixed results. They could bounce all over the place. However, either way, just having these here in your scene is going to be great. These grasses look really, really nice. For the larger grass areas though, we are probably going to use some of the default much lower poly slightly older grasses. We don't necessarily need to be painting on the highest quality grass. All right, I'll pause and I'll come back when all my grassland is done. So, with our grassland somewhat in place, but not done yet and we'll probably add a lot more grass. Let's take a look at the actual building itself. Now, when it comes to this, I do really love the stone texture that has already come out on this material. This came straight from SketchUp, so polished concrete noon. And I might just take a look at the material properties of this. I don't think I need to enhance the roughness and we don't need anything else going on with it. There is no normal map, but we are still getting a pretty nice texture on there, especially from distance. Same with this rock over here, but I want this rock to look a little bit more treated. So, what I'll do is I'll take down the roughness ever so slightly to give it a bit of a polished look. Now, when it comes to the glass, I'm just going to go library and I will go materials, glass. And honestly, when it comes to this, I just use the clear glass. So, let's use the eyedropper and I'll change my material settings to apply to selection and I'm going to change my projection type to cubic UVs. I'm just going to make sure that I've got the glass selected and I will drag out my clear glass. Use the eyedropper on there. There we go, clear glass. It's not too bad. We can adjust the intensity as well of the sort of opacity, like how see-through we want this to be. But from a distance, I think all of these materials will work. I'm not usually pushed about changing any of them. All right, everybody. So, let's take a look at our lighting environment. Pretty happy with the the landscape we built. So, let's look at lighting. And I've got three different lighting setups that I can run through really quickly with you guys and then we'll bounce over into post-production and the use of an AI tool to enhance our images. So, image one is the more traditional Leon very popular HRI to use because of the gray overcast sky. And under the environment settings, we're using Leon one. Sky dome. And I have turned off directional light match HRI. I want to be able to put a sun in this actual scene. And you can see it's picking right through the pine trees right up there. And the intensity is pretty low. It's at 50, and and you do want to keep this one pretty low. I've also dropped the size substantially as well. And uh the reflection I've turned off as well. I don't really want it affecting anything else. That looks pretty nice. By the way, camera settings will change for all of these, but please note auto exposure you always want to turn that off. You want control over that. Uh white balance is 6,500, and the local exposure I've got the highlights at 0.5. You can kind of see what the highlights is doing. And the shadows at 0.7. Focal length has I think remained pretty much the same. And we have parallelism on. So, that's a pretty good standard shot. For the render, we did do high, and we do have the denoiser on. And I might do a separate video on whether you should put the denoiser on or off later on, but for now it's um effects, little bit of contrast, less saturation, and 10 and 10 on the clarity and sharpness. And that's it. We've rendered that one out. Now, the second shot, which I do quite like quite a bit, very very similar in terms of the effects, the contrast, and saturation, but this one we're actually using the pure sky 8K. And uh this setting is available from Poly Haven. Might actually be in the uh Dream Motion library. I'm not sure off the top of my head. So, overcast soil pure sky 8K, again intensity of one. Again, I have turned off the match HDR, and I've got a very weak sun in this shot. Everything else should remain pretty much the same. Auto exposure is off. White balance 6,500. And we've also got parallel as well as well. Now, the last one we have here is pretty similar as well. I just really love the sky. This is probably the one that I'll actually end up using the most, which is sunset meadow path 8K. Really lovely sky in this shot. And for this one, I just have the direction light to match HDR. I don't want an extra sun. You can kind of see the sun peaking right over there in the center of the screen. So, in terms of render sizes, we've rendered these out at a height of 3,000, width of 2,000, and we're going to use that figure for our AI enhancements. All right. Let's go ahead and bounce over to the AI, and then we'll bounce into Photoshop to see what we can do. All right. So, one of the two AIs that I've been using a lot at the moment is this one here, V-Ray. I hope I'm pronouncing that right. So, this is not a hugely well-known one to the best of my knowledge, but it is wonderful because it is designed literally exclusively for architectural rendering. So, really really cool tool. I'm going to do a video just on this later. So, how this works is it is basically an AI enhancer built only for architectural rendering, designed to take your rendered images, ideally relatively low resolution ones, and pretty much to upscale them, enhance them. And it does a absolutely wonderful job. So, here you can kind of see on their website some of the raw renders and the enhanced renders. It's really quite magnificent. So, again, we've got the raw and the enhanced. You'll notice a couple of things. It doesn't change the structure. It seems to understand that quite well, and it does add some really nice details, some wear and tear, and overall just enhancing that detail at the the texture detail that you actually want. They that does not have a free sort of let's say what the pricing here. It does not have like a free trial period or anything like that. Uh the basic is about 12 euro a month or we're set about like $15 I think at the moment. And again as it says here it's ideal for freelancers and small studios. You get 200 credits per month. You can do one image at a time and you can go up to 4K. Now I'm currently using the basic plan. I probably will upgrade to the professional within the month because I really really like this. And this is really easy. Let me show you. Their interface is super clean. So what we do first is sign in, click create a new project. I'm just going to do create project. I don't really need a name for this. And then what I'll do is basically just upload the images that we rendered out of Twinmotion. All right. Here we have our raw render that we rendered right out of Twinmotion. And you can see with they that we've got two options, architecture or people. Now what I'm going to do is literally just leave it on architecture and I want to upscale it basically twice. I'm not going all the way up to 8 by you know 12,000. Just literally taking the render that we had our settings at and I'm going to render it. That's pretty much it. We don't have options for prompts. We don't have options for negative prompts or creative scaling. All I need to do is pretty much just hit enhance and we'll take a look at the end result. Now the second AI tool we want to look at is Loop AI. Now I came across Loop AI again sort of just while searching out AI enhanced software for renders. And I I love I absolutely love this. So the thing I was looking for in an AI enhancer for my renders was something that that easy to use, did not provide an enormous amount of all the tools that you'll never use, uh produced really good results, was relatively fast, was relatively affordable, Lupa is what I settled on. Now, we've also looked in other Twinmotion videos at things like Criya AI and Leonardo AI. And if you've been using them for a while, their interface, their options have become very bloated. Uh they're trying to sell you on a whole eco system. I don't want that. I just want something that will enhance my images. And Lupa is really, really loving. Now, how this kind of works is you set up an account. Again, I'm on a pro plan here. I'm paying for this. It's really not that expensive though. And I'm going to just go to enhancer. Now, we've got a bunch of different options for enhancements, but the one that I've settled on is this guy right here, the classic one for realistic materials and interiors. Uh I'll show you a picture here. This is from a D5 project. Let myself out of the way here. And if I click on the I little icon here, it'll give me kind of what did I use, what model, the classic, that's the one we're going to use, and then just some of the other settings. There's only really three settings you have to worry about. I'm going to just zoom in with the middle mouse button. Here is the left. This is a raw render from D5. And look at that. That is absolutely superb. Oh, man. The car looks really, really good. The car metal looks good. It's not perfect, but it understood chrome. It understood the metallic car material. And look at that foliage and the reflections. So, we're going to do a pretty similar job on our Twinmotion project. So, let's go ahead and click the upload to enhance images. So, you can see one image selected. I'm going to upscale this by two times. And I'm going to click the AI prompt. I've generally found this will give you a better result, so the AI will effectively analyze your image, figure out what it is you're trying to render, and then produce a prompt for it. Now, Lupit does a really, really good job with this reading the actual images. You can see, modern minimalist house with a sharp geometric roof, blah, blah, blah. It's done a really, really fantastic job. Now, this is kind of important, the settings. Generally, I'm just going to use medium. I'm going to take the resemblance up to 90. I don't want it changing the actual house or the structure. And the dynamic, which seems to be the sort of creativity setting, I will put at 55. We're not doing a close-up, so I don't need to worry about the fractality. Yeah, sure, we'll go with that. And you can see it'll tell me how much this is going to cost, how long it'll take, and I just click upscale. Now that Lupit's running in the background, let's look at V-Ray that. And this is brilliant. You can see the image the original on the left. We zoom in here, we're getting absolutely stunning detail on the tree bark right there. The ferns are looking spectacular. The building's a bit too wear and tear heavy, but all in all, I'm not unhappy with it. I think it's a much better looking product than what we sent out of uh Twinmotion. It's done a really, really nice job. Has Oh, look at that. It's boosted some of the glow on our exterior lighting as well. Now, it did add some stuff back here where it couldn't really read the natural environment. That's okay, we can just brush that out in Photoshop. But the texture on the building is wonderful. The sky got a little bit noisy, but I'm not hugely worried about that, either. But that foliage looks and the rocks down the bottom. Oh, yeah. That is absolutely brilliant. Um I've really enjoyed working with this. At the moment, it's relatively cheap, it's easy to use. Uh Veda is absolutely great. I get uh I'm not By the way, I'm not affiliated with these companies. I don't know them. I'm paying for them. They didn't give it to me. I just do like the results of the stuff they're actually producing. That's really great. So, now that we've got Veda ready to go, I will just download this little guy. And then let's go back to Lupa AI. All right, let's see what we've got here. Okay, sky game Yeah, that was good. Let's enhance the realism. Now, the resolution has gone up quite a bit here. And the building texture looks absolutely brilliant. Look at that foliage in the background as well. The foreground, yeah, it did add bark. Uh I'm not unhappy with that. And the rock looks really, really nice. Lupa AI, absolutely brilliant. Now, a couple of things we might also want to do with this. By the way, Lupa AI also has the ability to use uh image generators, video generators, or image editing. That's for a separate video, but Lupa AI is absolutely brilliant. Now, what we also might do is do a second one of these with the creativity set to strong and everything else staying the same way. So, here we are in Photoshop then. We've got the original raw render, which is layer one. This is pretty much straight out of Twinmotion. And then we've got our Veda render. And we've got three from Lupa, including this top one, which uh was actually done using the kind of the one of the older kind of generative models. So, this one doesn't line up perfectly well, but we might be able to use little bits of it. So, let's bounce down here. We've got our original Twinmotion render, which is this one right here. Above that, we've got our Veda render, which again really, really like. It's just really, really class. And then we've got the two from Lupa. So, how we're going to work with this is basically using masks to blend between the multiple different versions that we actually have. I'll move myself to the bottom right. All right, starting with the V-Ray render. I do like the sky here. Yeah, I do like the sky. It's a little bit noisy and I think we'll probably end up using one of the Lupe AI skies. But, in the foreground, I really, really like this. So, what I'll do is add a mask, zoom out, and I'm just going to ever so softly brush out the bits that I don't necessarily want. I'm using a soft white paintbrush here set to black, and yeah, we'll put the opacity up a little bit higher. And I'm just going to scrub out some of this texture. I want to bring back as much of that original one as we can. I will keep some of the dirt on the building, just a little bit up there at the top cuz I think that looks really, really cool. And overall, let's just run I want to toggle this on and off. I'm liking what it does in the foreground, but once we get over to the middle distance, I think I'll bring back more of the Twinmotion render. And like I said, I do like what it did with the lights, so I'll bring that back. And we want to get rid of the back here where it didn't really read exactly what we were what kind of wanted it to do. Foliage and everything else is still looking really, really nice, and down here looks really great. Then we turn on our Lupe layer one. Now, I want to change the tree on this on the right. I want to get I want to get rid of that one. And the texture is probably a little bit too strong. So again, we'll just kind of brush this out. Again, with a soft brush, you get a lot of leeway, and we just keep toggling on and off, seeing what we like, what we don't like. I'm going to keep this part here, and again, brushing out the parts of the building that I don't really love. Working nice and gentle. We've talked about this before. It's a very painterly approach. Keep that texture in as much as we can. And on the veil layer, just brush out some of that texture again. Okay. And back to the looper layer, and I just want to make sure that you always want to make sure you're on the mask. That is super super important. There we go. And in terms of the foliage, yeah. Just brush that out. I'm keeping the sky. The foliage is one of the really big things. It's one of the best things that AI does really well, which is enhancing foliage. And then we've got the uh second looper image on top. Again, a little bit too pronounced on all the settings here. And uh I don't kind of love the lighting. It sort of misread the floor a little, and it kind of has this guy just like falling right over. But the rocks up at the front are not terrible. So, what we'll do is we'll scale our brush up really big, bring back the paintbrush, brush this out, and I'll do the reverse. I'll start brushing in the bits that I might want. So, again, just hitting B on the keyboard, toggling between black and white. Just looking at the opacity, and bring in some of the rock down here. Now, the last one was this uh traditional AI kind of like generative image one. And do like there's a lot of the green over here. So, again, I'll add a paint mask, just brushing out, and I'm keeping an eye on kind of what's coming in and out of focus. And brush that all out. We don't need it. And I'll kind of continue working on this guy over on the edges, cuz I did like what it did on some of the green areas in particular. And I think this is still the best way to utilize any of this AI content is you just see it as a tool. It's just a tool to enhance the renders. It's not going to replace you, at least not yet. Um I'm sure at some point in the next 10 years, we'll just, you know, we'll be bowing down before our Terminator AI overlords, but for now we can just use it to enhance parts of the render. Maybe just bringing a little bit of this foliage back in, little bit of the greenery maybe back in, just ever so slightly blending between the layers. When you're happy with the changes that you've kind of painted in and out, go ahead and put these into a folder, right click and duplicate that little guy. We will right click and merge that as well. Then we'll duplicate it one more time. We'll come up to the adjustments. We'll put a little levels adjustment on this and just click auto, ask Photoshop to balance it out. Now, I think that's a bit too much, so we'll take the opacity down on that. Uh put it about there. Right click, merge that down. And then we can go filter and we will go up to camera raw filter. And and it we're going to see we're seeing a little bit outside of the canvas there, so don't worry too much about that. And let's zoom in a little bit here. Uh under profile we can try going to browse and maybe try some of the modern. And I'm just running my cursor over these trying to find a look that I like. I do like modern 08, so I'll click on that and hit back. And that will be a starting point to jump off with. So the next thing we'll do is go to the light options and I think just kind of pulling the camera back a little bit here. Let's uh let's raise up some of the shadows. We'll take the blacks down just a little. I'll get some nice shadows in there. Uh the exposure we can take a little bit to the right as well, bring that up. Looking at the highlights as well, bring that down. I want to get some of that sky back in. And then the white value, let's bring that little fellow up as little bit. I'm I'm a bit too much of the texture there, but I'll fix that later. Under color, uh a little bit of vibrance, dropped the saturation quite a bit. I don't want it to be super saturated. We will add a little vignette, quite a strong one actually, add a bit of gray, always nice. And then under the curves, I'm going to do the usual thing where I lift my image up to give it a mattifying look, and I'll take it up to about here. Color mixer, let's maybe Yeah, I'm actually pretty happy. Let's make the ferns a little bit greener. Color grading, I'll add a tiny, very tiny bit of blue into the shadows as well. Midtones I'm sorry. That should be a little bit of blue into Yeah, I'd put that on the midtones. So, I'll put the midtones to warmer. I'll put the shadows to blue. There we go. Bring a little bit of that blue light back in. Adjust the luminance. Kind of see the effect knowing. Too bright. So, I'll put that about there. Detail, add sharpening, just crank it to 50, grab the detail slider, and just crank it all the way to 100, and then slowly start bringing this up. And we'll add a little dash of lens blur as well. Now, there's still like tons more I could do with this. We could come in and add some more adjustment layers. We could also come up here and maybe add some of these like smart filters as well. But overall, I'm pretty happy with this. I'd probably add some fog as well if I was doing this professionally. And one last thing I didn't forget to mention was I did upscale this using Photoshop. I just went in and put the height to or the width to 3,000, and Photoshop automatically upscaled it to 3,000 by 4,500. And with that, we are done. Hopefully, that gives you a bit of an idea of how to integrate two different AI tools into your workflow. I'll do a bigger videos on both of those tools coming up pretty soon. However, for Twinmotion renders and non-D5 renders, they that and Lupa AI have become my absolute go-to. And the other cool thing is Lupa AI, if you're paying for it, you can upload your finished Twinmotion render like this guy and do another upscale, do another enhance on top of it as well. And that's really very, very cool. All right. Let's go ahead and leave it there for today and I'll see you in the next video soon. Cheers.