Hi, I'm Tom with the SPB production  channel and in this video I will show you   how to create wall types with material layers  in Bonsai BIM. So this is my finished example   where you can see this wall type has just the  structure layer and it's a brick material. This   one has four layers. It's finishing stucco. Then  the insulation of polystyrene structure layer is   concrete and the finishing layer is again stucco.  And this one is quite similar but the structure   layer is the brick material. So this tutorial  will show you how to create wall types in bonsai   and it is also useful for those who don't work in  bonsai but want to learn about how the IFC schema   works because bonsai BIM is IFC native authoring  tool and you will learn how the IFC material layer   set works in the IFC schema. I'm using Bonsai  0.8.5 8.5 in this tutorial. So let's scrap this   finished result and let's start with the new  IFC project and I will use the one with meters.   So I've got IFC4 project in meters and I will  create a default wall type. So I will select the   wall tool and then I will click create IFC wall  type and I will create a wall. So I will click add   and click here and make the wall 5 m long and hit  enter. So this is my default wall and the default   wall type. So if I click on the object information  you can see that the wall type is this unnamed.   And if I select it I can change the name. So I  will go to edit and change it to default wall.   So I will know that this is my default wall type  and you can also see the types here in the project   tree. Now even this simple wall has defined  IFC material layer set. And if I want to see   the material, I will again select the wall type  and I will go to this geometry and material tab   and I will make it a bit wider. And here you can  see that the IFC material layer set is this one.   It's total thickness is uh 0.1 mters and the  material this is the layer and the material is   unknown which is the default material. So we will  leave this this default wall as it is and we will   create a new wall type. So while having the wall  tool still selected, I will click this button   which shows the wall types in my project and I  want to create a new one. So I will click this   create new IFC wall type and I will change it  from movable to solid wall and I will name it   uh W01. This will be our first wall type. And I  don't need a description. So I will click okay.   And you can see that I've got a new wall type  here. And now I will close this type manager.   And I will make sure that I've got the wall type  selected. So here you can see that I've got the   W01 wall selected. And you can see that the IFC  material set is the one as the the default wall.   And I want to change this. And let's say I wanted  to create just a simple wall type, a 30 cm thick   one with a brick material. How would I do that?  Now before I jump into creating IFC material   layer set, I need to have the brick material  here. So I will go to the material dropdown   and this I have just one material in the project.  If I want to work with materials I will click this   button load materials. And you can see if I click  this dropdown I've got uncatategorized materials   just one. This is the unknown and it's assigned  to three objects. And if I want to create a new   material I will click this plus button. And this  creates a new material. So I will name it brick   material. I could choose description or category  but I will leave it uncatategorized. So I will   click okay. And you can see that I  created a brick material this way.   So now to not make it confusing I will  click this button to drop down to drop   up the creation of materials and you can see  that I have already two materials in my project.   Now here under materials I have got IFC materials  selected. But if I click this dropdown you can   see that you can also manage your IFC material  layer sets or other IFC material related objects.   So I will select IFC material layer set. And if  I click this dropdown you can see that I have two   unnamed IFC material layer sets in my  project. And one of them is this one.   So I will not edit them from here. And I will  close this material layer set management. And   I will edit it from here because I know that this  uh is assigned just to this W01 wall type. And to   edit this material layer set, I will click this  button. And now I can change the layer set name.   So I will name it W01 and the description will be  simple brick layer set. And if I hit this button,   you can see that it's renamed and the description  is there. The name does not have to be the same as   the type name, but it can be. And now we will  finally get to changing the material layers.   And for that again I will use this button. It's  the same button. I could have done it previously   but I wanted to show you. And this is the current  layer of the unnamed and unknown material. So if   I wanted to delete it, I cannot because at least  one layer must exist in a material layer set. So   I will actually edit this layer. So I will click  again this pencil button and now I'm editing the   layer thickness and layer properties. So I mean  the thickness is I said zero I said I wanted to   have it 30 cm and the material these I could fill  in. So I can actually the name will be structure because it's structural layer  and the description will be brick and the material here I'm choosing the material  from my project. So I can click this dropdown   and I can select the brick material material. So  these are the changes that I'm doing to my layer   and now I will save those changes and you can see  that this is the name I have added to the layer   and this is the this is the material. So again so  the name is structure and this is the material.   So I will I could if I did not do any changes I  could save changes or I could exit this without   saving the changes. So now I have got the layer  set up and I want I can also save the material set   because I'm still editing the material layer set.  So I will click this checkbox to save the changes   and these are the changes that I have done to  the W uh to the W01 wall type. Now here nothing   has changed because this wall is using the default  wall type. And if I change this, you can watch the   thickness if I change it. And for the wall type,  instead of default wall, I will select the W01.   You can see that the thickness has changed  according to the setting of uh of the of   the material layer set. And of course, when  I'm creating a new wall, I'm adding a wall,   I have the option to set the wall type to Z W01.  And if I add wall here, and I make it 4 m long,   you can see that the wall has the has the same  thickness and the same properties. It's just,   you know, the wall type 01. Let me  switch to autographic viewing mode.   And so now we have got this uh material layer set  done. But what we also want to add is the color.   So the we can then differentiate the wall layers  because by default they have all the same color or   in IFC schema this is called a style. For us,  this will be IFC surface style because it's the   surface color. So, it's important to note that  the material, the brick material that we created   does not define the appearance properties  of the object or the material. And the   appearance properties are defined by these uh  these surface style either surface style, fill   or fill area style. So if I want to manage  these styles, I will again click this button   and this will show me the surface styles that are  in my project. And I can see that there's none.   So I will add one by clicking this button and I  have to scroll down. I will name it brick style   and uh I will let this be as it is. And the  color will be I will give it a red uh red   color and not that bright. And I will  save the new style. So I've got now this   brick style. And now I want to assign  this brick style to my brick material.   So I will actually close the management of the  uh surface styles so I'm not confused by it.   And I want to go to the management of  materials but not the material layer sets   but the uh management of materials. And I will  again click this drop-down here. And I will select   the brick material. And here from these icons I  will click this enable editing material style this   crystal ball. So I will click it. And now I can  assign style. And here I have a drop-down of my   styles. And you could you can see that I have  only one style available brick. Brick style.   So I will assign this style and once I assign  it you can see that immediately in my project   the walls have changed their their styles  according to how the material has been assigned.   So now I can click this button to hide the  management of materials so I'm not overwhelmed   by all of these menus. So this is basically  all you need to know to create wall type with   IFC material layer set with material and a style  and it's important to note that the material is   independent of how it looks like of the style and  the materials are joined into the IFC material   layer set and these IFC material layer sets can be  used to define define objects like walls or slabs.   Okay, so let's now actually create a new wall  type W02, which would be actually a layered wall   where I would have a finishing layer of  StuCo of 2 cm, then the brick layer of 30 cm,   then an insulation layers, let's say 25  cm of polystyrene, and then again the   finishing layers to go of 2 cm. So let's first  prepare the materials and styles. So let's go   to styles and let's click this dropdown and we  have got the brick style. To create a new style,   I will click this button and here [snorts]  I will change the name from brick style to I will name it white sto and I will change  the color to white and save a new style. So,   I've got a new style here and then another style  and I will name this one uh yellow insulation and I will use the bright yellow bright yellow  color. Okay. And I will save this style. So now   I've got the basically the surface styles created.  So I will hide this management panel for now.   And now I will create actually the materials. So  I will click this dropdown [snorts] and I want   to create a new material. So again I will click  this plus button and I will name the material stco   and hit okay. And now here I will select it and I  want to assign the surface style to the stucco. So   I will click this crystal ball and uh I  will change I will select the surface style   the white stucco and assign the style. So  this material is created also with the style   and I will create another new material.  So click here and this will be polyon. Okay. And I want to again assign the surface  style. So I will click the crystal ball and   select the yellow insulation. So my materials  are defined. So again I will click this button   to hide the materials management. And now I  will create a new wall type. So I will click   this button for wall type management. I will  create a new wall type. The name will be W02.   And again it's not movable but solid wall. Hit  okay. And now I will close this. I will make   sure that I've got this wall type 0W2 selected.  And you can see that it's again created with this   default material layer set. And I want to  edit that one. So I will click this pencil.   And I will change the layer set name to W2. And  the description is exterior brick brick wall layer   set and uh here I can I can actually I will  make it so that I can check that it's okay   and I will go to edit again to actually set up  the material layers. So I will edit this one   and I will change the thickness  to 0.3 and the name is structure layer and the material is the brick material. So  this one is the core and now I will add another   one and actually I will add the polystyrene.  So I will select the material and add the   layer with this material. It's unnamed.  So I will have to edit this. And also the   thickness is not correct. So I will edit this  material layer. And I will name it insulation. And the material is correct. But the thickness  I said I wanted it to have 0.25. 25 m thickness.   So these are my coral layer and the insulation  layer. Now I will add the stucco layer.   So it's added here. So again I will edit it   and first I will change the thickness  to 0.02 02 m and the name is finishing and it's too co. So that's correct. So I will  save changes. And now because I know this layer   will be also at the uh at the inner side of the  wall. I will just click this duplicate layer.   So the layer is duplicated with the same  properties. And now I can move them up or down.   So I will click this button and click this button.  And these are my layers. So this looks correct.   So I now I will save the material layer set by  clicking this checkbox. You can see this material   layer set. And now if I create I've got this uh  wall type already active. So if I create a wall   again 5 m long hit enter you can see that it's  created with these four layers. So it's the 2   cm stucco then it's the 30 cm of brick layer  then 25 cm polystyrene insulation and then   2 cm of stucco again on the outside. And again  you can see that if I have select this object this   wall occurrence and I change the wall type. Oh I  selected all of the wall types. So I will reselect   just this one. And I will edit which type it it is  defined by. So I will select W02. It uh actually   the layer system is applied. And what's nice  about this system is that if you change the   material layer set, the walls also change. So let  me go to this type and let's say I made a mistake   and the insulation thickness should be  40 cm not 25. So I will go to the edit   and I will edit the insulation layer and I will  change the thickness to 0.4 m. Save changes.   Save changes. And you can see that the insulation  thickness has changed and it also changed   on this wall. So this is  basically fully parametric system.   So with this knowledge you will be able to  create any layered wall type or slab type.   Now stay tuned to the SPB production channel  because in my next tutorial I will explain how to   define wall joints with regards to wall layers. So  you can actually define how the layers are merged   at the wall joints. This is quite important  topic and it's also part of the IFC schema.   Now, if you want to learn how to use Bonsai  BIM for professional architectural work,   I would recommend you to purchase the video  course by Ryan Schulz, which explains how to   create a professional BIM project from start to  end [music] in Bonsai. The link to the course is   in the description box below. I hope this was  helpful and I will see you in the next one.