What's up guys? Justin here with the ai essentials.com. So in today's video, we're going to talk about how we can set up the MCP server inside of SketchUp so that you can use AI to execute commands and create models directly inside of the program. Let's go ahead and just jump into it. All right, so just like high level real quick like what is an MCP? Why do you need it? Because this is super important. So basically MCP stands for model context protocol. So this is basically just the standard way that AI tools communicate with systems where data live or um different tools like SketchUp, right? This is how your AI talks to SketchUp. So in this case, it's actually going to let your AI hook into SketchUp through the Ruby console and allow it to do different things. And so like what can it do? First off, it allows AI to execute code and work with different tools inside of SketchUp. So, um, it can not only execute code, but it can also call different tools that are built into SketchUp and utilize those. There's a lot of things that it can do. So, in this case, um, it's going to allow it to create models and it's going to allow it to take screenshots and see what it's doing, right? So, this is how tools like ChatGpt and Codeex are going to drive SketchUp to create different things. So, this is super valuable not only for modeling but also for extension development. Um because what this does is this allows this to write Ruby scripts, test them, and then iterate on those without you having to go in and double check and tell it what it did every time. Like this allows the AI tool to work in SketchUp and see what it's doing. This tutorial specifically is going to work with um both Claude and ChatGpt Codeex. So, it's going to work for either one of those. I don't know if it works for the other tools like Grock or anything like that. But I'm not even sure if those have a desktop version or not. But that is something that's important to note is you're going to need the desktop version of these tools in order to get this to work. This is not going to work with the web version. Um so you need to make sure that you download the desktop version of either one of these tools. And so a lot of this work is going to be done using either clawed code or codeex for chat GBT. There's not an additional cost for either one of these. um they just use the tokens inside of your subscription a lot more quickly. So, I highly recommend you start, and this may be the only way that you can do this by downloading one of the desktop apps for these tools. So, you can either download Claude's desktop version or ChatGBT's desktop version. Again, for this video, we're going to show you how to do this in ChatGBT, but it's going to work very similarly to Claude, right? So you want to go and you want to download the chat GBT app by going to chatbt.com/d download and then clicking on the option for downloading for Windows and installing the tool um that becomes that that it downloads. Okay. So before we continue there's one important thing that I want you to understand from a security standpoint. We are now working in codecs or claude code. They're the same kind of tools or similar kind of tools. They can access files and execute code locally on your computer depending on the permissions you give them. By default, they don't automatically receive administrator access, but they may be able to read or modify files available to your Windows user account, particularly if you grant them full access or approve a command. This particular MCP also allows the AI to execute Ruby code directly inside of SketchUp. That's what makes it capable of creating and modifying models. But it also means you should only install code from sources you trust and review commands or permission requests before approving them. The permissions and approval settings can limit that access, but they don't eliminate the risk. So only continue if you're comfortable with that. And so when you download the tool and get it hooked up, it's going to look something like this, right? So, you'll go ahead and you'll log in and you should be able to use the desktop version even if you have a free version of ChatGBT. Um, it's just that you'll go through your tokens and your credits very quickly um in the free version. But what you want to do is you want to download this and then you want to go over into codeex. Now, one thing that I recommend when you download this app is go into your settings. So, click on your name, click on settings down below, and depending on if you are worried about security at all with your computer. I usually like to uncheck the full access right here because for some reason when this gets installed, um it it gets installed with full access turned on and I don't love that because I don't really want this to be able to edit any file on my computer without it asking first. So, I usually like to go ahead and turn that off just for a little bit of additional security. But now what we're going to do is we're going to download and we're going to install the MCP extension. Okay. And so basically what we're doing with this is we're installing two pieces. One piece lives inside of SketchUp and gives the AI access to SketchUp's tools. The other piece runs through ChatGpt or Claude and basically translates our natural language or regular talking requests um into commands. the SketchUp extension can execute. So once we set up those two pieces and set them up together or plug them in together, then we can basically describe what we want and the AI can create or modify models directly inside of SketchUp. Okay? And so I'm going to try to make this as simple as possible so that you don't have to be super technical or anything like that um in order to set this up. And I'm also going to use this as an opportunity to kind of like help you understand how to work with AI when you have a problem like this to solve. So this is the SketchUp MCP. You can download it for free inside of GitHub right here. And it's immediately confusing because if you scroll down and you look at this down here, it gives you instructions. And so the first instruction it gives you from a SketchUp standpoint is it wants you to download and install or download or build the latest RBZ file where if you look up here, there's no RBZ file in here. And so it has all of the stuff for an RBZ file, but it doesn't actually have the RBZ file, right? So, like if you click in this SU MCP folder, and don't worry, you don't need to know what all of this means, but if you just like look at this in general, there's all of the parts and pieces that you need in here to make this an extension. Um, because an extension, right, an RBZ file is just a packaged set of files that SketchUp can run. And so, what we're going to do, and I want you to get really familiar with this anyway, is we're going to hop over into this app right here. um we're going to copy the MCP um URL, right? So, we're going to right click on this. We're going to do a copy. Then, we're going to hop over into chat GPT and we're going to click into codeex right here, right? And so, all codeex is is just um basically a version of chat GPT that's more suited for actual like coding. And [snorts] all we want to do in here is we just want to paste that URL in here and say please help me set up this MCP server with in my case it's SketchUp 2025 because um I uninstalled it from 2025 so I could show you how to do this. So I'm just going to say please help me set up this MCP server with SketchUp 2025. Right? And so it's going to go through and it's actually going to review that GitHub. And if you do this on Claude, it's going to do the same thing. Oh, and you know what? Just for this video, I'm going to say I'm doing this for a video tutorial. So, please treat this as if I don't have any other versions of the MCP already on my computer. Give me instructions. specifically for someone who has never installed this before, right? And we honestly shouldn't be using Astra for this. So, we should be using um like GPT 5.6 or something like that. Astra spends a lot of time in here. Um so, we're it uses a lot of tokens. And so we're just going to click in here and we're just going to change this to like GPT SOL or something like that. Just the medium effort model is going to be fine. Okay. And so notice it shows you right here that it leaves out a crucial step. It says to install an RBZ, but then it doesn't give you an RBZ. That's the nice thing about using chat GPT for this or Claude for this is I will figure out exactly what that means because basically what it's going to tell us is it's going to say okay we're going to need to download these files from GitHub which it can do and package them into an RBZ. That's not a big deal. You're just going to say download these files and package them into an RBZ and that'll give us an installer that we can use in order to set up the MCP server. Okay. And so this is what I really like about this is it goes through and it does kind of an analysis of what's in there. And you don't need to read all of this, but notice how it gives you instructions, which is exactly what we need. So we're going to start by downloading the code in the repository. So we're going to hop back on that page and under the code option, we're just going [clears throat] to click on the option for download zip. Right? So that's going to download a zip file and then we're going to go find that zip file and we're going to unzip it. And so we're just going to go over here. We're going to rightclick and we're going to do an extract all and we're just going to extract it to a folder right here. And so now we have all of the code on our desktop. And so we have that and we're going to work on that in a second. Now notice how there's an option in here for install UV. And so there's two ways we could do this. We could do it manually or we could have codeex do it for us. And some of that is just going to depend on how comfortable you are with letting codeex execute code on your computer. And so we're going to start by opening up Windows PowerShell. Um, so there's nothing really scary about doing like it seems scary, right? But it's really not. Okay. And so we're just going to take this piece of code, right? So you're going to open up PowerShell and you're just going to take this piece of code and just copy it and then go into PowerShell and paste it and then hit the enter key. And what this is going to do is that's going to go find all of that stuff. Um, and it's going to install it on your computer right here. It's going to tell you it's successfully installed, right? And so at that point, like you're good from an installation standpoint. UV has been installed. You didn't have to do anything. And then there's a second there's the second piece of code right here that we're just going to copy into PowerShell. And we're just going to do a copy right here. We'll hop into PowerShell. We'll do a controlV. We'll hit enter. What that's going to do is that's going to tell us the version of UV that we have installed. So this we've basically verified that this is installed on your computer. Now, one thing that you can do, and again, this is a security thing. Some people are comfortable with this, some people aren't. I'm 100% comfortable with it, but I get if you're not, you could just type in here and just say, "Can you do this for me?" And what this is going to do is it'll take those commands and it will basically pop up a little permission window that says, "Am I okay to run this PowerShell command inside of PowerShell?" So, some people are good with that, some people aren't. But you can literally just say, "Hey, can you do any of this stuff for me?" Um, and let it run this. I'm going to show you the long way just so you can see what it is. But really, I mean, all you have to do is just follow these instructions, right? Okay. And so, again, I want to note that we are following the instructions that we have been given from codeex in order to get this up and running. So when you're reading through this, remember that you were following AI's instruction, right? Because if you try to do it following the instructions that are here, there could be some things that are missed or other things like that. Um, so like that's the instructions that are inside of the GitHub aren't really super helpful, which is why we're following the instructions that this has given us. Okay. And so this next step is a little bit confusing. And so if something is really confusing like it's telling you to follow this step right here assuming you're not going the fully automated path um basically what you can do is you can just say okay for for you can say okay for step three I don't understand what this is having us do. Okay. And so basically what this is doing is this is using code to figure out where this Python file is installed. And again for me I usually just say can you do this step automatically but if you don't like letting this run code on your computer you can do it manually as well. But you're going to take this right. You're going to copy it. You're going to paste it into your PowerShell right here. And you're going to run it. Okay. And so basically what that command does is it finds the location of the SketchUp MCP file. It creates this text file and it puts it in there like that, right? And then it opened it up in Notepad. So this is just a file that we're editing. And then and it's already been edited in here, but you want to find this line right here. And you just want to copy paste this version in here. Um and you just want to save it, right? And so basically, you've put that file in there and you've told it what version of the SketchUp MCP to install so that you have something in there that this is compatible with. Now, I'm going to show you the easier way to do this. Okay. So, I'm just going to say so you can see. So, can you just run step three here so we can see what it looks like? And so, it'll go through and it'll do it right. We basically just said, "Hey, can you just do this for me?" and it's going to run like a different version. It's going to run it so that you can see what the permissions are. So basically what it's going to do is it's going to run a task, ask for permission, and then I'm just going to say yes. And in this case, because I already gave it permission, um it's not doing that, but it should ask permission. And so it runs that in the background. So you don't have to do anything. That is the easiest way, but there are security things that you may or may not be good with. Okay. And so now what we need to do is create the RBZ file. This is not as hard as it sounds either. And so the easiest way to do this, I'm going to show you this one first this time, is I'm just going to say, can you do step four for me right here so we can see what that looks like. Basically, it's just running a command to go in and get these files and just um it's basically going to zip them and then change the end of it to RBZ versus zip. And so, notice how right here it asks, can we build this Ruby installer in the repository folder in documents? So, basically, it's saying, hey, can I build this file and put it in that folder? I'm going to say yes for allow once. And it's going to zip all of those things together. Okay. If you want to do it manually, you're just going to take extension.json JSON SUMCP and the SUMCP folder. You don't need to do the package script. You just rightclick on them. You just send them to a compressed zip file. And then we're just going to hit enter. And then we're just going to rename it so it's a RBZ instead of a dotzip. Right? That's all this step was. But we just automated it using codeex instead of doing it manually. So now if we hop over into SketchUp and we do an install extension right here, you can just install that file and it's going to show up down below. And then once we install it, it's just going to show up just like this. Right? So two ways to get there just depending on how indepth you want to get with this and how much you want to do manually. Okay. So step seven, I mean again you've got two options. You can ask codeex to do it for you, which is what I do, or you can go through and you can figure this out. Again, like it all depends on how comfortable you are with security, right? But this is basically told us like, okay, I want you to go to this folder, right? This SketchUp MCP main folder. So, if you just copy this over into PowerShell and run it, you can see what it's going to do is it's going to put you in that folder with your username, document, SketchUp MCP. Next up, we're going to go down and we're going to verify we're in the right folder or that this Python project is in there. So, we're just going to copy this over right right here. And it's going to say yes, that file is in here. That's what this is doing. But you're basically telling it to go in this folder. And then I want you to prepare the environment by running UV sync. So, we're just going to type in UV sync. And so what that's going to do is that's going to go read the file. It's going to find a compatible version of Python that you can use for that. It might download it. It might not. You can see how it's just doing all of that automatically right here. And then it's going to create a private folder with this stuff in it. And so then we want to verify this installation. And so we're basically going to copy this over to PowerShell and we're going to paste this in if you're trying to do this manually. And so basically it's going to say print SketchUp MCP Python server is ready if the server is ready. So there's some other stuff in here and again like codec should explain it all to you. The easiest way the easier way to do this is can you just show me what it looks like if you run step seven for me. It's basically going to take this whole thing. It's going to ask if it can run the sync in here to create that Python environment. So, it's basically going to ask permission to do that. We're going to say yes. It's [snorts] going to run that and download those things into that folder. And you can see how it had an issue in here. And so, it asked me if it could do it again, and I said yes, right? But you can see that it's doing the same thing. It's using the same code and command that we used. And it's asking if it can verify, and it's going to go through and do it. So again, you can do it yourself or you can have Codex do it for you. Okay. So step eight is just going to register the MCP server with Codeex, right? So Codex knows where to go to connect to the MCP server inside of SketchUp. And so this is going to give you instructions to do this. Um I again I find it's way easier to just say, "Hey, do this for me." Um and just pay attention to what it's trying to do. But I'll try to walk you through what it's doing as well. Um, same security discussion applies to this one. It's still occup or it's still creating code on your computer. But basically what this is going to do, right, is it's using PowerShell to find the location of the MCP repository. It's going to store that as a variable. And then it's also going to find the location of UV execute, right? So, it's going to find where that is and it's going to store it as a variable as well. And I mean, you could find this on your computer and copy paste the location into if you wanted to write this piece of code yourself. Um, and then it also needs to go through and find where codeex is installed. So, it's going to go through and it's going to search for um codeex [snorts] codeex's file as well. So, this is going to go find this um and it's going to store that as a variable as well, right? And then it's going to put it all together into one like registration function in here. And so that whole thing is going to store the location of the MCP. It's going to find the location of uexe. It's going to find where codeex is and then it's going to also test and make sure that it can find this Python pro project file. Right? So we're going to take this whole thing. This is the complete sequence. And again, like looking at this, I'm not really worried about the code because it makes sense what it's doing. Um, but again, like most of the time, I would just say, "Okay, please do this for me." But I'm just going to click in here and then we'll just hop into PowerShell. We'll paste this whole thing in here and then we're going to run it. And so it's going to go through, it's going to run in here um in the background. It's going to register it with Chad GBT. So now this whole thing is registered. And so one thing that you want to do after you run this is you want to restart codeex so that it can basically register that change that happened. So we're just going to completely close it. So go all the way into your tray. Make sure that you close chat GBT and then we'll reopen it up. And so now we're just going to hop over into SketchUp. You should have installed and enabled that extension. And I like to go ahead and open up the Ruby console window. So we're just going to go to extensions developer Ruby console. Bring this over. and then but now what you're going to notice is if you go into your extensions there's an option here for MCP server there's an option for start server and stop server. So when we click on start server, notice what this does is it tells us it's starting a server on localhost 9876. Again, you don't need to understand this. You just need to know which port this is. And then we're just going to go back into chat GBT, right? And so in the minute, for the moment, I'm going to leave this on keep manual approvals. Depending on your level of concern, um you can just uh give it more approvals. I at the least at the moment like for it to ask, but as those requests get more and more common, I might change my mind on that. But now what we're going to say is okay, the MCP server is installed. It says it's on localhost 9876. Can you see the server? And so it's going to go through based on everything we've done up here and it's going to look at that port and see if it's listening, right? So it's basically going to see if the server is listening for commands. And so again, like you might have some issues where it doesn't see that or something like that. Whatever error you get, just paste it back in here and say, "Hey, it's not working. It told me this." Um, but then notice here how it says that it's found it. And you can actually see that right here, right? So you can see that something connected to it. Um, it did just a little quick thing to make sure that it was accepting things and then it closed it, right? So now we know that chat GPT can talk to the tool right here. Okay. And so I had to do a double check real quick cuz I do have this already running in 2026. You don't need to worry about that. But now that we have a connection, we're just going to say, can you draw something in SketchUp? That's going to be kind of our final test, right? It's just like, hey, you've got this connection right here. Now, can you give it commands and actually do things? Um, so we're going to see if this works. So, give it just a second and we're going to see what it does. And it's very common to have weird little issues in here. But notice how, look, this created a cube right here. And it did it all using Rubycript. And so now what this means is this now has the ability to actually like reach over into SketchUp and drive assuming the MCP connection is on. Now one thing that you should know is occasionally this does have issues with the disconnecting. So you can just go to extensions MCP server and just like start server again if that's ever the issue or you can go to you can stop the server and then restart it. Sometimes it does have issues with the connection dropping but usually it's really good. But now we have the ability to create models inside of SketchUp. And so we can create new chats. And when we have new chats, which I usually recommend for different kinds of models, then each one of them should be able to reach out to the MCP and actually work directly in SketchUp. All right, so that's where I'm going to end this video. If you have any questions about setting up the MCP server or what to do with it next, feel free to leave them in the comments down below. As always, thank you so much for taking the time to watch this and I'll catch you in the next video. Thanks guys.