Hi, I'm Tom with the SPB Production channel and  in this video for Bonsai BIM, I will show you   how to set up wall joints. So, I will  show you how to create a miter wall joint,   a butt wall joint, and most importantly,  I will show you how to set up wall layers   to protrude to each other in joints in a way that  you desire and that is structurally sound. So,   this video is meant for Bonsai BIM users and it  will also be useful for users who would like to   know how the IFC schema works in relation  to how layers are set up in wall joints.   This is because Bonsai BIM is native IFC authoring  software and I'm using Bonsai 0.8.5 in this video.   So, let's jump into my sample file. So, it's  the start project and I have got my walls here   and these walls have already wall layers set up.  If you did not watch my video about setting up   wall layers, I recommend you to watch that because  we will be working with wall layers in this video.   So, I have got three wall types. One is with this  brick core and then insulation and then stucco,   then there's this one with the with the  concrete core and then there's this one   which is just a simple brick wall. So first,  let me create butt and mitered wall corners.   So, to create a mitered wall corner, I will select  this wall and then with shift, I will select this   wall. Then I will select my wall tool and here we  have a tool which is trim. So, if I click this,   the wall connection is created, the walls are  trimmed, and by default, the mitered wall joint   is created. Now here, if I would want to create  a butt joint, I would do it manually. So, I will   extend this wall up to this point. So, I will  hold shift and right click and snap to the edge   of the face of this wall. Now, I will extend I  have this one selected and I will extend it to   where the 3D cursor is and this one I will I  will extend to this wall. So, again with shift   and right click, I will place the 3D cursor here  and then I will extend Oops, I had the wrong one   selected. So, I will take a step back, select this  one and extend it to here and now I have a butt   joint here. But you can see that the layers are  not done correctly. But yeah, this is this is okay   for me now. Now important thing to note is that if  I want to break the joint between these two walls,   I can select one of them. So, I will select  let's say this one and I will use this button   unjoin walls. So, now they are unjoined. So, if  I if I uh extend this one just here, you can see   that they are independent and I would again, if I  wanted to change their alignment, I would have to   manually do it like so. So, I will now make this  joint mitered like this. Now, let's take a look at   actually creating joints between walls with layers  and protruding uh protruding each one to another.   So first, let me show the case of this wall  and this wall which are of the same type. So,   you can see I've got this one selected and  it's the W02 type. This one is the same. So,   if I want to extend this wall up to this wall, I  will select it and then shift select the one that   I want to extend it to and then use the extend  tool again and this wall is extended up to this   one. But you can see that the layers are not doing  anything. It's basically the the the butt joint.   And here, of course, I want to the brick layer to  protrude the polystyrene layer and also the stucco   layer and I want the polystyrene to protrude  the stucco layer. So, how will I set up this?   The key to this is how the IFC material layer set  is set up and how the individual layers are set   up. So, I will select the type that these walls  are and I will go to the material and geometry tab   and here I will go to the object materials. You  can see that it has got this brick wall layer set   assigned and I want to edit these layers. So, I  will click this button to go to the edit mode.   And here now I've got these layers and I I have  to edit them. And I have to edit the material   layer. So, if I go to the edit mode, you can  see that here there's a priority attribute.   If I take a look at the IFC schema definition,  the definition of IFC material layer, it has got   this attribute which is which is name is priority  and it's integer. So, it's a range from 0 to 100.   And this attribute controls how layers are  intersected at connections. So, this is exactly   what we need to edit. And how it works is that  I can add a priority number to each layer. So,   this is a plan view of my wall joint and I  will give priority the 10 to the stucco layer   and then 50 to the brick layer, the structure  layer, and then 30 to the to the insulation layer.   So, now if there's a joint and this 10 layer meets  a 10 layer, they are joined. Now if this 50 layer   meets a 10 layer, 50 is more than 10, so it  protrudes into the 10 layer and then it also   protrudes into the 30 layer and then it stops only  when it meets the 50 layer where it's joined. And   then this 30 layer, when it first meets the stucco  layer which is 10, it protrudes it. But then it's   then it meets again this polystyrene insulation  layer. So, then it's it's joined at that place.   So, let's go back to Bricsys and here is the  priority and I'm adjusting the stucco layer. So,   I will add this priority a 10 number and I will  save the change. Now for the structure layer,   that's the brick, I will edit this one and  I will edit the number 50 and save changes.   And then the insulation, I had it set  to 30. And I will save changes and then   in the another the finishing layer is also on the  other on the other end. So, I have to add this   10 priority to the stucco also on the other side.  Now, I will check this box and you can see that   already as I have done that, the joint has changed  how it's created based on the priorities that I   added to my wall layers. And this is because both  of these walls are the same type. So, I adjusted   the properties of both of them. So, let me now  show you if I select this this brick, just the   plain brick wall and I want to protrude it up into  the brick layer. So, the the structure was 50. So,   I will give the the brick the brick layer the  same priority. So, I have got this one selected.   These are the inherited inherited properties.  So, I will uh edit this material layer set   and here is just a brick wall. So, I will edit the  brick layer and I will change the priority to 50.   Save changes, check this. And now if I have this  wall selected with shift, I will select this one   and extrude it to here. You can see that the  wall the brick wall protrudes the stucco layer   and it protrudes also the polystyrene  insulation layer. So, this works nice.   Now, let me show you here. I have a third wall  type and here I have a concrete structure layer   and of course, I want to have the concrete have  higher priority than the than the brick. So,   again, I will edit this material layer set and I  will have to edit here again all of the layers.   So, this is the stucco layer and I know that  for these stucco layers, I have the priority 10.   Insulation is the same as with the brick wall. So,  the priority will be 30. And the structure layer,   I want it to have bigger priority than the brick.  So, I will give it a 70 which is more than 50.   And then of course, the stucco I have to change  this again to 10. So, it joins correctly. And now   if I check this if I again extend this wall to  this wall you can see that now the joint because   the concrete has bigger priority than the than the  brick. You can see that it protrudes the brick and   then of course it protrudes also the stucco layer.  So this is how the priority attribute of the IFC   material layer works in IFC schema and you can  see it here in practical terms in bonsai beam.   If you want to learn how to use bonsai  beam as a professional architect,   I would recommend you to purchase the bonsai beam  course by Ryan Schultz which will teach you how   to use bonsai from start to finish from creating  the 3D model to creating the 2D documentation.   20% of the proceeds from this course go  to the Bonsai development. The link is in   the description box below. I hope this was  helpful and I will see you in the next one.