Welcome back to the final part of this three-part 
series. This is what we had at the end of part 2,   so the walls, the windows, the doors, 
furnishings. And we set up a very easy   lighting so that we could see what it looks 
like. And now we're going to add materials and   lighting to make our floor plan look amazing. 
I'm dude Blender and let's jump right in.  Alright, as before shift + control + S to Save As. 
And let's call this FPTutC. Remember we want to   have a history of our files in case something 
goes wrong and we need to go back. Alright,   let's begin with the floor. Make it visible 
if it isn't already. And I'm gonna go to   the material preview shading by pressing Z and 
pointing towards this one and releasing Z. This   shading mode allows us to see materials 
without calculating the light bounces,   so it's faster than using the Rendered shading. 
Okay, with the floor selected, let's go to   the Material properties. Scroll down with the 
mouse wheel or hold the middle mouse button and   drag to see the rest of the menus and click 
on Material Properties. You can also make this   larger. Let's add a material and three more slots 
by clicking on this + button. One, two, three.  As we did in part 2, we're gonna be using my 
starter kit that you can purchase from my Gumroad,   but you can really use any materials that you have 
available. Since we're now using only materials,   we can go here to this filter icon, click on 
it and uncheck Objects so that we only see the   materials. We can just drag and drop our material 
from the ASsset Browser to the materials slot   where we want to apply that material. The first 
material that you create on a mesh will be by   default applied to all of the mesh. I'm actually 
gonna hide the floor plan because we have this   Z-fighting and I don't like it. So, let's just 
go ahead and hide it here. And I will see that   the BeigeTiles material is applied to the whole 
mesh. So now to use different materials, we need   to assign faces to the corresponding material. 
So, I'm just gonna drag and drop all of the four   materials that we're gonna use in the slots that 
we just created. So now this object, the Floor,   has all of these four materials related to it. 
We now need to tell Blender which faces use which   material. So again, with the floor selected, let's 
go ahead and tab into Edit Mode. And let's press 3   on the keyboard or click on this button right here 
to activate Face Select mode. Since in part one   we made a face for each room, we can easily select 
the faces to assign the material that we want. So,   let's start with the Bathroom. Let's just click 
on that face. It becomes highlighted. Next,   here in your materials, select which material 
you want to apply to that face. In this case,   we're gonna use the WhiteTile. This face is 
selected so we can assign that material slot to   that face by clicking here on the Assign button. 
Then the Bedroom, let's go with the WoodFloor,   Assign. And then the Mudroom, let's go with 
CheckeredTiles, Assign. We've now got a different   material for each room, but I actually don't like 
how it looks now. It's way too much. So, I think   that we can use the same floor for the Bathroom 
and the Mudroom, and the same material for the   Bedroom and Living Room – Kitchen combo. So now we 
can select this material and click on this button   and search for the material that we want. In this 
case, it's WhiteTile. Enter. Now the material in   this slot changes to whatever we selected, 
so all of the faces that had that material   assigned to it will automatically update. Let's do 
the same with the Bedroom floor. We select this,   change this material from WoodFloor to BeigeTiles. 
And now we have this material assigned here too,   but we still have our material slot.
Okay, if you're following, you can just go   ahead and add any material that you want in your 
rooms. And once you're happy with how it looks,   let's go to the Shading workspace. Make sure 
we have Object selected in this menu. This   Viewport is different and independent from 
the one that we have on our Layout workspace,   so it has its own perspective and the shading. So, 
let's change that here to material preview. Now,   if you forget which of these slots are assigned 
to which of the faces, you can select the slot and   click on select so that you see which faces have 
that material slot assigned. All right, this is   the node tree of the BeigeTiles material. If you 
don't see anything, it's possible that the tree is   hidden somewhere. So, you can either just zoom out 
with a scroll wheel or press the home button so   that you can see all of the tree. I've highlighted 
in orange the node that controls the scale. So,   we can zoom in here and click and drag left or 
right to change this number until you get a scale   that you like for your tiles. Remember to press 
shift to have more precision when you're clicking   and dragging. I'm just going to go with 0.5. And 
note that we are changing the actual material. And   since the Bedroom and the Living Room and Kitchen 
use the same material, the scale will change for   both. If we wanted different scales for each 
room, then there's actually a few ways to do it,   and it depends on how the material is set up. 
And for these materials, the way to do it is   to duplicate the material and edit that one. 
To do that, we select a slot that we want to   change. In this case, it's this one, the one that 
is assigned to the Bedroom. Now we're going to go   here to this button that says New Material, add 
a new material and click on that. It creates a   copy of that material and assigns it to this 
slot. You'll see that it adds a .001 because   you cannot have two different materials that have 
the same name. We can just double click this and   change it to BeigeTilesBedroom, for example.
Now this material, even if it's the same here,   it's a completely new instance, so if we change 
this material that is only assigned to this face,   it will only have the effect on that face 
and the other one remains intact. So, let's   say that I want smaller tiles in the Bedroom. I'm 
just going to go with 0.7. Okay, that looks good,   so let's tab out. Let's actually go back to our 
Layout workspace. We're going to add a material to   a couple of the walls. Now you might still be in 
Edit Mode in the floor mesh, so just check here.   If you're in Edit Mode, just tab out to Object 
mode. We now want to select the walls. Save your   work again with control + S and we're going to 
go back here to the modifiers stack. Now at this   point, it's still relatively easy to make changes 
to the walls if we wanted to. We would tab into   Edit Mode, 1 to go to Vertex Select Mode and maybe 
alt + Z for X-Ray Mode so that we can select the   vertices beneath. And we could, for example, add 
a new wall here by extruding these two vertices.   And so, we can still make changes. We could also 
change the thickness of the walls if we wanted to.   So, we still have some flexibility in what we can 
do to the walls. Now I'm just going to delete that   and go back to 0.15. So just make sure that you 
don't have any changes to the floor plan because   after this point, making any changes might be 
possible, but it would be extremely complex. So,   we're now committing to this geometry. You'll see 
if I tab into Edit Mode that the geometry that's   created by the Solidify Modifier doesn't have 
vertices. It is being dynamically calculated. But   after we commit to the modifier, all of this will 
become real geometry and there is no way back.  All right, once you're ready, just go ahead and 
click on this arrow and click apply or hover over   the modifier and press Ctrl + A. The modifier 
disappears. And now if we tab into Edit Mode   and press Alt + Z to get out of the X-Ray mode, 
you'll see that all of the walls have now real   vertices that we can grab and move and edit and 
do all of those things. And the reason that we   need to do this and apply the modifier is that 
now each face is independent. Before, this wall   and this wall were part of the same thing, so 
we could not give them a different treatment.   And if we applied a material to the wall, we 
would apply the same material on the outside   than on the inside. And in this particular 
case, that's not what we want. So, we need   to commit the geometry so that we can select any 
face that we want and modify that specific face   and nothing else. So, we now have full control 
over our walls at the cost of flexibility. So,   if we ever wanted to make the walls thicker now, 
it would be very complicated to do. We would   have to move like specific vertices and do each 
wall one by one. So that would not be practical.  Now with the wall selected, let's go back to 
our Material Properties menu and add a new   material. Remember, this material is by default 
applied to all of the walls. Let's just rename   this to WallsDefault. So, if we ever want to 
change anything like the color or the texture   of the walls that have no material applied to 
it, we can just do it here. Let's add a new   material slot and tab into Edit Mode again, Face 
Select. Let's select this wall right here. Oh,   one thing to note, if you're in X-Ray Mode, which 
you can toggle with this button or with Alt + Z,   instead of clicking on the wall, you have to click 
on the center of the wall, which is this tiny dot.   I don't even know if you can see it in YouTube, 
but if you want to make this bigger, you can go   to Edit >> Preferences >> Themes >> 3D Viewport, 
scroll all the way down until you see Face Dot   Size. Let's change this to at least 3. You make 
this smaller, 4. Might be a little bit too big,   but you get the idea. So, if you're in X-Ray Mode, 
you need to click on the actual dot. Okay, I don't   want that, so let's turn that off and select this 
face. Now select the material and assign it to   that wall. Of course, there's nothing here now. 
Now let's drag the Brick material to that slot.   You'll see that it doesn't work immediately and 
that's because of how the material is set up. So,   let's go back to the shading workspace, press 
Home so that you see the whole tree and this   is the Brick material. So, to avoid the need of 
UV unwrapping the walls, which would probably be   more complicated. I set the material in a way that 
we just need to change the orientation. To show   you how the mapping works, let me create a Mesh 
>> Plane and move it a little bit in Z and I'm   going to add the Brick material to this plane. 
So, this is by default how the material is set   up. If I extrude this in Z, you'll see that the 
texture on this side is just this edge stretched   down and that's not what we want. So, what we need 
to do is rotate this in X by 90 degrees and then   rotate it in this direction, which you would think 
it's the Z direction, but it's actually the local   Y direction of the plane. See, before I rotated 
it the first time, the Y plane is this one. So,   we rotate it in X 90 and then rotate it in Y, but 
in the local Y 90 degrees. And then we have the   right orientation. That's the exact same that 
we need to do. So, we're going to rotate it   in X and Y by 90 degrees. You can just click and 
drag to select both fields at the same time, 90,   Enter. And then we have the correct orientation.
So, let's say that we want to change the texture   on this wall and we want a wavy texture. So same 
thing, we select the wall, add a new material,   assign that material to the wall. We can drag 
here to create a new panel and select the Asset   Browser. Select our StarterKit library. 
I can just filter out again so that we   only see the materials. And let's say we want 
the TexturedWall3. We can just drag it here,   drop it. And now it's being applied to that wall. 
You'll see that this one doesn't need remapping,   and the reason is that if I press home here, 
this is made with a Voronoi texture. And in fact,   all of the textured walls, TexturedWall2, work 
without the need of remapping because they use   either a Noise Texture or a Voronoi Texture. And 
now we have this wall with the wavy material,   this wall with the brick texture and the rest 
of the walls with the default material that we   could also change. And let's actually go ahead 
and change that to a, I don’t know, beige color,   I think looks okay. Or this sort of warm gray or, 
you know, any color that you like. I'm actually   just gonna leave it in white, but you could 
change it here. Now, if you wanted, you could   also change, for example, the door material. There 
are actually a couple of ways to do it. You could   just say, select this side of the door, select the 
door material. And here we could just select any   other material that exists in the scene. This 
is a cool trick because once we've added some   of the furniture, we have access to these wood 
materials, so we could use the same thing. We just   go ahead and click, search for wood and use any 
of the materials that we have. Let's just go with   Wood2 and it changes the material. Then we could 
do the same thing with the rest of the parts.  Now, there's another thing that we could do. We 
could just actually copy the material, the nodes,   and then go here to door material, delete all of 
this and paste the material that we copied. Then   we can just connect this here. And now, since 
we changed the material, everything that uses   that material will also be changed. We could do 
the same thing with the windows, for example. We   could select this part and Window_material. 
So, let's just delete this and we could just   connect that here and make something, I don't 
know, metallic. Maybe a little darker. We could   also change the glass if we wanted to. I'm not 
going to do that. And now for the closet doors,   since we probably don't want these to be 
glass, we could just copy the material and   change the transmission weight to 0 and maybe 
change the color if we want to. Something like   that maybe works and we can change the name 
to closet doors. We could of course add a wood   material if we wanted to. So, we can use any 
of the techniques that we've learned so far.  Now, one final trick, if we want to 
change all of these at the same time,   so we click to select all of these, shift to 
select all of them and we select the one that we   want to copy the materials from, last. So, shift 
+ click. Now, all of these objects are selected,   but this is the active object. So we press 
control + L for the Link/Transfer Data menu, Link   Materials. And now we've got that. I just figured 
out that this door is the other way around. So,   let's just go ahead and go to Create >> Archimesh 
and let's rotate this 180. And remember that any   time we change something, we need to place our 
cutter back on the cutters collection. We also   need to relink the material. So select these two 
and then either of these, control + L >> Link   Materials. Done. I'm going to leave it at that. If 
you want to continue experiment changing different   materials for different walls or different floors 
or even the furniture, just go ahead and do so,   nock yourself out, have fun, and once 
you're done, we can move on to the lighting.  All right, let's save our work. Go back 
to our layout workspace. So, in part two,   we created a very simple global lighting with our 
Nishita Sky Texture. If we go to rendered mode,   we can see what that is. That's kind of like 
a sunset and there's global illumination. The   thing is that for a realistic render, this is 
not good. So, I want to show you how to use an   HDRI here. And then after that, the way that I 
actually light scenes. So, I think we don't need   this anymore. Let's make it smaller. And now first 
you need an HDRI, so you can go here to Poly Haven   and here you have a bunch of free stuff. So, an 
HDRI is basically 360 degrees photograph that   you can use for lighting the scenes. You want to 
use indoor lighting because that will give you   the more realistic look of the things that are 
inside the house. If you want to, for example,   make a render that looks through the window, you 
might want to use something like urban and find   an HDRI that has things that would be interesting 
to look at from the window. So, for example, other   buildings, a park or in general, any urban scene. 
If you do that, I'm just going to go with this   Buiksloter… What? I'm just going to go with this 
one. And if you want to be able to look outside,   you want to get assets that have good definition. 
So at least 8K better if you have 16K and if your   computer can handle it, 24K. Let me see how 
big this file is. Oh man, 3 gigabytes. I'm just   going to go with the 16. That's way too much. 
Okay, I'm going to use the 8K texture, but you   would probably want to use a higher resolution. 
I just don't want to wait for it to download. So,   download the file. Now, once you've downloaded 
the file, I actually recommend you have a folder   where to store your HDRIs because it's something 
that you use a lot. So, I think that this is the   default folder where Blender has the HDRIs that it 
comes with and it’s actually kind of difficult to   find. So, it's probably better if you just make a 
folder in your computer that you know where it is   and that you can access easily. I've downloaded 
my file and copied it to this folder. It's right   here. Close this and go back to Blender. Now to 
use an HDRI, there are actually a couple of ways   to do it. One is here in the world properties. 
We change the color, we press here in the yellow   circle to Environment Texture and we open the 
HDRI file. So, since it's very difficult to find,   I have it here in my bookmarks world and I 
have all of my HDRI's here. Whenever you're   in a folder, you can click on the + button to 
bookmark it and have it here for quick access.   So let's select our buikslotermeerplein, double 
click that and you'll see that it's now here.   So that's kind of a faster way to do it. I use 
it in the shading workspace where you can see   your materials. You can also change this from 
object to world. I'm going to zoom in and you   have it here. I'm going to go to rendered view 
and you'll see that it applies the material all   around and even below. And the image works as a 
source of light, so in this case, it's a cloudy   day and then it's going to have a very diffuse 
light, but it does look like you're outside.  Let me go back to Layout. I'm going to create 
a new panel here. I'm going to add a camera.   You don't need to do this. I'm just showing you 
what you might want to do. So, I add a camera,   move it up a little bit and let's place it 
wherever there's a window, so let's say here   in the bedroom and here I actually want to move 
the camera here and I'm going to go to the camera   view on the one on the left, so press 0 and I'm 
just going to make the camera very wide. So,   something like I don't know 16. Okay, I don't 
want to say that in my render. I don't want   people to know that we have no roof. Okay, so I 
just noticed that I actually changed the material   of the Bathroom doors. So, let's use actually 
this one and link that link materials. All right,   and these are wrong as well. So, we select 
these two this one and link those. Okay. Now   one thing that happened here is that when I made 
the bathroom doors, I actually changed the glass   material. Now my windows, the ones that actually 
should be completely transparent are not. So,   we're going to add a new glass material. I'm just 
going to change the name to Glass_materialBathroom   and then select this, this, this, this one last 
control + L >> Link Material. So now all of our   doors have the Glass_materialBathroom and now 
I can just, whoops. Now I can just select any   object that has the glass material and I can 
actually change this to glass. So, we can   change the Principled BSDF to, scroll up, Glass, 
Roughness, let's do 0.1. I just do 0.05. Okay,   now if I render this then you have your room 
with something to look at through the window.  Now in general, I don't use the floor 
plans like that. I will usually just   have renders that go from the top view 
or with a little bit of perspective,   but I usually don't do renders inside the house, 
which you could do, but keep in mind that these   assets are not designed to be photorealistic.
Okay, so that's one way to do it. The second   way and it's the one that I actually use is just 
by using a light. So, Shift + A >> Light >> Area   move this in Z a little bit go to top view move 
it close to the center, scale it up. We can go to   Shading and delete this go back to Layout and we 
can just turn the strength to 0 because we don't   want any global lighting to affect our scene. 
Now we go to Rendered, select the light, and   with the light selected go here to Data – or the 
Light Properties – and change this to something   like 1500. I'm just gonna make the lamp a little 
bigger and that is actually the lighting that I   would use. I don't think we need that much more.
However, we do have a couple of tricks. The first   one is getting the right exposure. The way 
we do this is we go to Render Properties,   scroll all the way down to Color Management expand 
that and change the view transform from AgX or   whatever you have selected to False Color. You 
can now see a sort of exposure heat map that you   can use to get the right exposure for your scene. 
So red is overexposed or it's just going to look   white on the render, which is not necessarily 
bad. You might want to have some red part. Blue   is either underexposed or it's something that's 
just black and it's not reflecting any light. So,   the TV, the screen is always going to look blue. 
Now we do have a lot of red here. So, let's select   the light again and go to the Properties and we 
can just turn this down, let's say to 1000. We   probably have too much blue here, here, on this 
wall, so let's increase this to 1250. I think   that looks good. It doesn't really matter that 
much that this part, the top part of the walls,   is overexposed because we know that the light is 
very close. Maybe I can even go a little bit less.   I want to go 1150, 1100. Okay, I think this is 
good. There's this is red. There's a little bit   of orange and there is a little bit of blue. So, 
I'm actually just going to leave it in 1150. So,   we can then just go back here to Render Properties 
scroll all the way down change this from False   Color back to AgX and look at your scene. And then 
here you can just fine-tune again. Maybe you do   want to go 1200. That's a good way to figure 
out a good starting point for your lighting.  The second trick is changing the color of the 
light and of course here you can select any color,   but it's very likely that you will not get 
natural results like this. So, a way to do   that is by clicking on Use Nodes here in color. 
We're going to click again on the yellow circle   and we're going to select here from the Converters 
>> Blackbody. So, this is the natural scale of   light you go from warmer that would be the color 
of light that’s emitted by, for example, fire and   then all the way to the right to cooler lighting 
which would be like a morning light. So, the   smaller the number the warmer the light. You'll 
see that around 5000 - 6000 is a neutral white   light. It defaults to 1500 Kelvin which is way too 
hot unless you're making a dungeon or something   that actually uses fire to light the scene. We 
don't want that, so let's begin with something   like 5000 and it looks way too blue and the 
reason is not because this is too cold but because   we still have this color even if we have the 
blackbody this will still influence that color.   So, let's reset this back to white so that we can 
actually see this color. Most of the time you'll   want to be between 5000 and 6000. I'm probably 
going to go with 5400. I do like how the warmer   colors look. I'm just going to leave it at that.
This door has the wrong material. So, I'm just   going to change it to glass material bathroom 
and this one too. All right. Let me add a camera,   Control + Alt + 0 to set the camera to that 
perspective and let's just move the camera a   little bit. Give it a quick render with F12 
and this is looking good. The bricks are a   little bit small. I'm just going to go here, 
Shading change this to Object, select brick.   Let me go to material preview and let's change 
this to something like 0.6. That looks good.  Go back to Layout and we're basically done but 
I'm going to show you one more trick. This is   completely optional but it's a good tool to know. 
It's called Freestyle and we're going to use it to   render strokes on the walls. The reason you 
might want to do this is, one: because you   might like how it looks, but the second one is: 
sometimes there is not enough contrast between   say a wall and the wall that's behind it or 
even the background maybe here even on the   refrigerator. So, in order to make it easier to 
know where the wall edges are you might want to   have those strokes, so let's go ahead and do that. 
We're going to go here to Render Properties scroll   down until you find Freestyle and check that if we 
expand this we'll see a few options but we don't   need to change that here. Once we enable this if 
you go to the View Layer Properties and scroll   down we'll see that there's a whole new Freestyle 
section with a bunch of panels. Find Freestyle   Line Set and expand that. Let's scroll down and 
check Collection. So, the idea is that we want   to tell Blender over what objects to render the 
strokes. In this case we only want to do that on   the walls, so we're going to make a collection add 
the walls to that collection and then select that   collection here. So, the wall selected, M >> New 
Collection. Let's call this Freestyle. Now here   we select Freestyle. Make sure that Negation 
Inclusive is selected. Next go to Freestyle   Thickness and change to the Base Thickness to 1.5. 
You can change this number later if you want to.  All right. Let's give it a render and 
see what we get. Note that rendering   the Freestyle takes a while. It increased my 
render time to 36 seconds almost 37 from less   than 10 seconds that the previous render took.
Now to get the perfect camera angle press 0 on   the numbers pad to go to the camera view and 
click on this icon to lock the camera view.   Now you can navigate normally but you're 
still looking through the camera. Yeah,   just navigate to get the perfect angle that 
you want. And once you have it you can zoom in   and zoom out. And once you have it don't forget 
to unlock this because if not, you continue to   navigate and lose the angle that you already had. 
So, get your angle and unlock the camera so that   you can now navigate without moving the camera.
If you made it this far great job. There were   some relatively advanced concepts in this 
series so congratulations! I hope you enjoyed   it and found it useful. That's it for the 
series. I'm Dude Blender. Happy blending.