Hey friends, what is good? Jean Pascal is asking something through a comment in my last video. So, let's see if we can help him out. Thank you very much for your videos. Thank you for your comment. When we add IFC classes to an object or a text, Blender, I think it it's Blender, not Blender. I think so. Uh, sometimes the object disappears. Could you explain why? Thanks. Um, this is very little information, but I have some hypothesis, so I'm going to cover them. Not sure if that if that's 100% your situation, but let's figure it out. So, I'll create a project. Uh, and then let's add an object. You mentioned object and text. Okay. And let's assume you have a cube. And this is a Blender object, right? Sorry. Uh this is uh just um Blender object. This is not IFC. I didn't save the project. I don't have it in IFC. Right. If I go on the information tab and I click here, I will get asked to assign it. My guess for this for the first part of the question is that you are just choosing the class here whichever uh that might be. Let's see. And then let's say that this is a slab. Let's say you I'm assuming you want to make a slab for this slab and you choose a floor for example and you click assign if class and that's what's happening. This is my guess. Okay, I'm not 100% sure but if you do that then I hope you spotted the mistake. Well, I think by default you have um the type is selected. So when you create a type when you convert your Blender objects to IFC, if you want to keep them exactly where they are and how they are and as occurrences as unique instances, then you have to use element not type. Because when you use type you are defining a kind of object that you can reuse right so you don't want to do that in this case if let's assume that you already have model the full house or something like that and you want convert different objects as normal object although it's recommended to use type it's good to to know how you define the types so model prepare all the types before and then you just instantiate them right so yeah long story short this is Why I think you are getting everything disappearing because you are doing that by default is the element type and that's what's happening if you select on the other hand the IFC element and let's call this a footing actually a pad footing and you assign IFC class oh we get a crash which is um unfortunate but is not a problem we can get back quickly So again uh shift a mesh cube again let's go here uh IFC element again because you have more things here you can add so it's extremely important if you want to add them as a as an entity as a as an occurrence you have to use IFC element and then choose pad IFC footing pad footing for example let's say that in my case assign IFC class and there we go now we have this IFC object So when you do type or maybe something else like feature or something like that what we have there then that's why it disappears. So physical object you want to use if element if it's not a type. If you if you want to create a specific type and then to use that type to model a different kind of objects based on that type that that's another story right which I'm not going to cover. So this is my guess. You have to comment and tell me if that's what you are doing if you're using types because the type disappears but its definition is there. So then you can instantiate it you can reuse it. Okay but this is my guess when it comes to this. Now let's let's uh talk also about the other thing the text we have some text here right and of course if you use type it's going to disappear for sure let's see also what's happening if we use an IC element and I'm wondering what kind of element did you use Because did you like this is this is very tricky because I'm not sure I think the way that I found it to work is a specific way and I think if you use it as an annotation and you assign IFC if class is going to disappear. Um there are few reasons for that. I'm not 100% sure of this, but I assume something. First and foremost, I'm not sure if this text is a mesh. I don't know Blender, so I don't know how to check that. It's it's something that is not a mesh, I think. So, and something else like if you can't see this text in other tools is because they don't support if annotations. So, I would not recommend you to use ICO annotations in the first place because no tools are going to show you this. So you want to have them as meshes, right? That means that you actually have to have them, you have to define them as elements somehow. So this is a good case, a good use case I would say for building element proxy, right? U so I would use an IFC element and I would search for proxy and userdefined. I'll call this user defined right and I'll call this annotation one or type one something like that like a classification let's assume that uh I don't know you can group them however you want because like at least you want to have this distinction to know to be able to select all the annotations in your model for example um but let's say let's just call it annotation Okay. And let's say that we can group all all of these annotations under this. And let's see what's happening if we do this. Now, it still disappears. Again, I'm not a Blender expert and I'm not sure, but I have a guess. Okay, I have a hunch. Let's see if that's the case. I think this thing it will not go to bonsai before we convert this to a mesh. I'm not sure. I don't think this is a mesh already. Uh and that's why bonsai is not uh converting it. I think so. Let's see if I figure out if I found how if I find how to convert the text to a mesh and after that we can do the the assignment of the class and then it should work. So I think it's somewhere. Let's see. So sorry for this. Like I said I'm not I'm not a pro in Bonsai in Blender. Sorry. Uh so in transform nothing uh convert. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Okay. Let's convert to a mesh. Okay. Cool. And let's try now. User define. Tada. It's ideal. Not sure. Does it work? Yes, you bet. So that's that's kind of my uh my uh solution for you. The only one that I know if you don't use types and your things are disappearing maybe maybe you are using feature uh element or something like that. I'm not sure you have to tell me. And about text this is the the approach I would do in IFC4. In IFC 4x3 you have more options. I think there is um the annotations are reintroduced. I have to look into it. Okay. But in IFC4, if if that's what you want to do, like you can do this even in I if that's what I would do. I would group them um under I if building element proxies and annotations user defined. Don't leave them just as a building element proxies. Okay. We could also look for something if I get if I go to bonsai.org And uh there is a button here search IFC class and let's say in IC4 if I have some text for example um we can have communication appliance. Yeah I'm not sure if this is the right not really. Uh and this is civil element type. No. So we don't have this uh annotation. Did I write it wrong? Annotation. No, let's see in FC4. Uh, no. No text communication surface. Yeah, in surface feature you can have some like a mark tag symbol marking rumble strip you see. So we can we can have some u some things but I think there is something more but yeah anyway like I don't want to go too deep into that like this is the solution this is the this is how I would do it if you need some text that is showing uh that some instructional text that you need in your models to show some things because sometimes then maybe they could become they could be very useful and that's how I would personally do it. Okay, I hope this is helpful. If you enjoy these kind of videos, leave me a comment. Who knows, maybe I might make a video about it. See you around. If you found this helpful, here's your next step. Join the free 7-day Open Beam Kickstart challenge inside the BIM voice academy. Get hands-on with Bonsai Beam. Validate IFC models. Learn how to use IDS. Run quantity takeoffs. No licenses, no cost. Just a solid foundation in 7 days. Most people wait until it's too late. Don't be one of them. Click the link in the description below, scare the QR code, or go to school.com Beimvoice Academy.