In this video, we're going to see how we can import a model made with the Bonsai Beam inside Twinmotion and also we're going to apply some materials and some quickly fixing and assets to make it look a little bit more uh realistic and so let's start with the Blender here. This is the model I created in the Bonsai Beam video course if you're interested. So this is lesson 22 of the course and it's a two-level house. And this was intended initially as an apartment but then lately I added some external assets and some geographic assets. Some landscape and some terrain. But we will remove those because these are just like placeholders in in Bonsai Beam and we don't need those in the render because in the render we want something less low poly, more realistic. So we're going to get rid of everything that is not uh that is not enough um let's say realistic in terms of number of polygons. I'm also going to remove this little small wall because it's going to be like a house intended to be on a terrain. And you can see the chairs and the table there. Maybe they can stay because they're kind of simplified but they could work. Otherwise everything else like the interiors especially well everything else but the the architecture you can remove it. So you can keep like the windows, the doors, the stairs, the the the walls, the roof, and the various levels and remove everything else or just hide. You can either hide with the H key or you can press the X to delete those objects. Now if you delete them, you you won't find them in the in this file of course. So maybe it's better to hide them and then you can export just the visible. So you have two options. You can export the selected, you can export the visible, you can export all, but I don't recommend I suggest you don't do that. Don't export everything because it's going to export also the single objects. And instead of like selecting like this, like quickly going in there and holding shift or doing the rectangular selection, it's better to isolate the models that you want to export and then go to file, export, and export the visible. So, let's start with you have various formats that you can use in Twinmotion, but GLB, glTF, and FBX usually are working really good and they're pretty popular, so you can use FBX, for example. I created already a folder here and I will save my file here. I've already saved it, but I'm just going to override it. And it's an FBX, so you can see export test 01. And here you can choose if you want to export just the visible objects or the selected objects. In this case, I will work with the visible ones, so. And here you can pick things that you want to export, but mainly we're going to export the models or the mesh, and that's it, maybe the camera. We could need the camera. And about the scale, usually it will automatically be detected by Twinmotion, so we don't need that. And the forward axis, well, the the the up axis is going to be the Z, so the forward could be the X or the epsilon or minus X or minus epsilon. I'm just going to put X forward, and that's it. So, also if you have apply trans transform, apply modifiers, if you use transform, if you use modifiers, you may want to check if that's on because that's important. But in Bonsai Beam, we didn't use modifiers, or if we did, we then convert to them into IFC models. So, the other option is to go to file export and export GLB or glTF. But, this time I'm going to do something different. I'm going to double click on the collection on the outliner so that we'll select the three layers I have, the roof, the ground floor, and the first floor. Once they are selected, I'm going to go to file export and I will choose only the selected objects. So, animation, we don't need that. And oh, you can also use glTF or GLB. Usually, I use GLB because everything is included like materials and textures. Instead, with the glTF, you have like separated packages. So, usually I go for GLB. But, in this case, we could use glTF because I don't have any material in set in the IFC model in Bonzai 3D. So, everything will be done in Twinmotion. So, I can use GLB, I can use glTF. So, it's the same. So, I just open Twinmotion. This is the latest version 2026. And I will go in the the new scene, the new standard scene. And just remove the the starting mix because we don't really need it. We could use the landscape, but that one we will just remove it or just hide it as usual. So, let me just get rid of that with the three dots. And everything you need to know about Twinmotion is in the Twinmotion video course in the channel. So, if you're interested, you can go there. I'm just going to go quick here with the basic stuff just to get you going. So, go to file import or control I or you can go down here and click on the plus. So, you have many possibilities. And you will bring geometry in this case. So, I'm going to go directly from here. I'm going to go to import. Select the file and let's start with the FBX. And this is where we exported the visible objects. Now, when you collapse here, make sure you keep the hierarchy because if you collapse all, everything is going to be like in in one single object and then it's going to be well longer to detach and edit that object, more complex and it's not necessary. So, here the up axis is going to be the Z. We can enable Nanite or not, but let's keep it on and everything is pretty straightforward and let's import. Okay, it's giving us a warning about shadows and um Nanite and so let's just say okay. And that's it. So, this is the model and you can see it doesn't have materials. Uh well, at least it has two because it didn't work again with materials in Bonzai 3D knowing that I I need to do these either with the rendering software. Or you can click here in the uh import section, you can reload, you can click plus, load more models. So, I'm just going to go for the GLB now. And GLTF just to show you that they are basically the same except for the fact that if you add textures, not only materials, you could import them with uh GLB. But here I don't have it, so just going to go here, import. Now, they are overlapping because they have the same exact origin in Blender, so I need to move them just with the move tool. And there you go. So, they they look basically the same. And let's go for the last one. It's going to be the GLTF just to show you that, you know, if you set the correct uh options, they're always going to be looking pretty much the same. Whether you you're using FBX or others. Okay, now there is a material conflict because there are set the same materials from the previous import. So, you can choose to stay with the scene material, you can use the imported material, you can also keep both. But, this is again something that um you need to concern only if you're working with the material and the texture. Okay, so you can see on the right side we have basically the outliner also here, so the scene navigator, and we have three folders, each one containing all the different meshes of each single scene. So, it's the same scene. Um so, but um in three different folders. And inside you have all the models you developed in Blender or in this case in in Bonsai 3D. And first thing I'm going to do is just start to assign materials. So, there are materials that don't have don't need mapping and materials that need mapping, and that's the main difference. So, for example, the glass is one of the easiest because well, in here you don't need to develop anything. You just have to pick the glass you want from the library. As you can see here, we have the library on the left. First, you need to download it if it's not ready, downloaded or available. You need to click on the little arrow, download the the materials you want, and wait. What When they are downloaded, you can just drag and drop them into the surface where you want to apply it. And that is going to put the material. Well, usually the default is set to replace the material, but now I I made another choice, which is putting the material onto an object. Um let me just show you another one, for example, the bricks, and then I'm going to explain this a little bit better, but everything is explained in the Twinmotion video course. How to work with materials, create customized materials, work with the mapping, work with the models, and so on. So, if you are interested, I definitely suggest you go and check the TwinMotion video course. Or else, if you want to to learn bonsai beam in Blender, you can check the bonsai beam video course. Okay, you can see if I drag the bricks on, they're not visible. Why? Well, that's not uh a mistake. It's just that probably there is no mapping in there. Mapping means how the material it's displayed is mapped on a surface. And up here, you can see first of all, this is the default, which is replace material. Now, what happens when I replace the material? Well, that is going to affect every part of the model where that material it's uh on. So, if I uh apply to a generic material, that's going to apply that to everything. So, usually I don't use replace materials, but I use apply to object or apply to selection, so that I can decide where to put, you know, different materials, even though I imported a um uh model with a single material. Okay? So, that's the main difference between replacing and apply to object. So, once you apply to the objects, then you can replace it later on if you want to change it into another one. And the other option is the selections. So, you can apply to selected. So, you you will select first the object where you want to apply it. You hold control if you want to uh select more. And then you can apply to selection. So, let's apply something else here. You have marbles, concrete, stones. Uh you have wood, you have uh metals. Everything here is ready to be used. That's the beauty of Twinmotion. That's why I really love it and enjoy it. And let's go with this concrete. So, first download it. And also, for the roof, you have materials for the roof, for the terrain. Just search for and you'll find it. You can use the search, you can use you can just navigate. And there you go. So, you can apply to selection or to single objects. And uh so, what's How we can solve the mapping issue real quick? Well, the quickest way we can do this is just change up here again next to the material. We have that mapping icon. And if you use cubic, since this is architecture, you will not have any problems here in in Twinmotion because everything is kind of straight. So, that's the not a complex mapping. Otherwise, if you need to do more complex mapping, you need to work with that in Blender or, you know, 3ds Max, Cinema 4D, whatever other software you're using. And then you do um get the mapping from the object. That's the the default. But you can see if I do this right now, it's not working because we don't have any mapping. So, I prefer to go with the cube here. And sometimes you can use the cylindrical or spherical and so on. Okay, then we can put some trees. We deleted the trees, low poly trees from bonsai beam because when we work with beam, we use low poly models. So, they have rid all all of all of all of those low poly models and substitute them with some nice trees and assets and props in Twinmotion. You have trees, you have vehicles, you have people, you have uh animals, you have furnishing. You have um really a lot of stuff that you can put to make things a little bit more interesting, a little bit more alive, a little bit more happy. Yeah. And uh colorful. So, the there are some people here. Some of these are animated also because you can create animation really easy in Twinmotion. I think Twinmotion is the best for animation and exterior rendering especially. And so you can see I dropped couple of humans in there and then I can put a grass material on the terrain. So again, download it first and then drag it and drop it and the roofing and all the rest. And I think that's good enough for this video. If you enjoyed subscribe to the channel to stay updated for more. Join the channel to support us. Check Twinmotion video course and Blender video course. See you in the next.