The first thing you're going to want to do after you deploy your first agent is create a second one. And you'll probably do it by pointing them to the same folder on SharePoint or Google Drive. Say for example, you have one agent that's going through and closing out and compiling all your your quality information to close out your inspection test plans, and you have another one that's gone and raised an NTR. Both try to go into the quality register to update it. And you end up with a folder looking like this. Two versions of the same quality register. you don't really know which one's been updated correctly with what information. Now, to be clear, if you've used tools like SharePoint, this problem is not limited to agents. But I think increasingly as we try to hand off some of our work to agents, some of it people do, that this idea of what I refer to as workflow orchestration is going to become an increasingly important part of AI and construction project management in general. And actually exploring some of these problems has made me rethink my ideas around how to set up an AI operating system for construction. And I think in the past some of the recommendations I've made haven't properly addressed this question of how do you deal with multiple agents and multiple people all trying to work off the same source of information. So everybody has the right information in the right format at the right time. So I just want to be clear when I'm actually making this video. These are my current thinking on the topic and the best way to tackle the problem, but it is an area I'm actively investigating. So, if you do have better suggestions on how to run multiple agents, integrate them into workflows on construction projects. If you do think some of my ideas aren't correct or this better way to do things, please comment down below because it is an area I'm really trying to explore and understand how to do it better. Okay. So to help you sort of understand and unpack this problem a little bit, I want to talk about why these tools why we run into problems using harness agentic harnesses like claude code or maybe use co-work or maybe use cursor anti-gravity doesn't matter which one you use. The idea behind these tools is that they were built for coding. All of them grew out of software engineering. They weren't designed for knowledge work. So now we're taking them, we're pointing them to folders full of Word docs, Excel, Excel files, PDF drawings, and then we're trying to get them to do the same sort of task. It's no wonder we're running into problems. We're fundamentally not using them how they were designed for. That doesn't mean they're not useful. We just have to rethink how we use them, which is what I'm referring to broadly as the topic of workflow orchestration. So the first thing to understand is what code looks like. So, when we're talking about code, we're talking about lots of different small text files. Each one maybe a couple of hundreds of lines, not like a PDF document, not like a Word document that could be hundreds of pages. They're also plain text. They're structured. You know, software engineers actually put in a lot of time and effort into organizing their code base for this exact reason. Now, and when someone makes a change, that change impacts a few lines of code at once. Now software engineering runs into the same types of problems as we run into with knowledgework except they actually have built this entire system to directly address this problem which is githubs and git repositories. And basically what this is is 30 years of knowledge and principles of how two people can change and manage things in the same way track revisions and solve these workflow orchestration problems. So what happens on software engineering is they have what is referred to as git repositories. So if you're not familiar with GitHub and git repositories basically it is a version control system for software engineering. Every change somebody makes you can see it as a diff which is basically seeing on the actual code files the exact thing that has been changed. When someone generates a change to the code base they create what is referred to as a pull request. So it is a request to add the code they have added back into the main GitHub repository. When people make changes, they create their own branches of the files and then request when they finish the changes to pull them back in and merge them with the same branch. You can also see exactly who wrote every single line of code and when it was actually committed to this main GitHub repository. So basically you have this history this version control the system this entire system around maintaining the integrity of the codebase. Now the reason the system works so well is because it is structured around lines of code. So each line is a small section of text. Problem with knowledge work and why the same approach doesn't work and again this is what these agentic coding tools were used to read and write to and how they manage their version control. The reason this doesn't work for us is because we don't have lines of code. We have files. So the unit of measure for how AI reads documents we deal with in knowledge work is the entire Excel workbook. So if we want AI to do something within this quality register, don't know my computer's frozen and I can't drag it across. If we want AI to read what the quality lot for slab on grade poor is, it has to ingest this whole Excel workbook and when it wants to change just say this status from NCR raised to NCR closed, it has to send it. It has to update the entire document. So if someone in our team has that Excel workbook open at the same time or another agent is trying to read and write to it, what happens is both of them will try to write at the same time and we end up with these version control issues and our and our folders will start to get littered with markdown files, duplicates of documents and we just run into this entire nightmare. Now again, this isn't just an AI problem. If you've used Microsoft SharePoint on construction projects, everyone runs into this problem. It is an absolute nightmare. In addition to this, it is not a cost effective or token effective way to actually read and write to files. Now, if you are using something like Google Drive online or SharePoint online, you can have multiple people working in the same documents at once. And Microsoft I know promises this version control thing, but I find on projects where you have multiple people working in the same file, you always end up with multiple versions of the files and things not saving correctly. at least in my experience is the SharePoint to local folder sync just never reliably works. Now I want to be clear that this is a very complicated problem and I don't think there is a one sizefits all solution to how everybody should structure and do this. If you have a very small company, you've only got two people working in the same folder, it's probably not a big issue. This is probably more of an issue for larger companies or you have larger people trying to access the same files and you want to deploy agents to do the same thing. It is an incredibly messy problem and again as I said in the introduction it is something I'm still trying to work through and understand the best solution to it. Now my original approach for having sort of an AI operating system for construction company was that you have your business context in a separate library addressable via MCP. So for example this is my AI in con this is my AI brain for my construction company. this it's just a sample construction company where you have all your business background your cost history ongoing tenders basically all the pro all the information that's shared across multiple projects you have in a tool like notion air table something that has an MCP connection into your AI brain which would be claude or codeex or whatever you're using then you have your project specific context so what the way you would deal with this is you would have a shareepoint folder that you share with your team that has all the project information in it You then sync that with a local file in your computer. Then the agent harness you open within the folder on your desktop. Now there's a few problems with this architecture and fundamentally what's going to happen is if you have multiple people, multiple agents reading and writing to the same files, this is the situation you're going to end up with. The reason the architecture isn't as as simple as I originally thought is most of the time when you use a tool like Google Drive or SharePoint, the actual file is not on your computer. it is downloaded as you need it. This is referred to as hydration or syncing. Now you can change a setting in your Google Drive or your SharePoint so the files always sync and they always live locally on your computer, but I have found that this just in practice does not work that well. I was trying to do that with Google Drive. When I changed the setting, I started getting all these weird file errors and I would create a file and then it suddenly wouldn't exist. I started getting all these problems. I turned it off. The problems got solved. So I don't think the local file streaming is as clean as Google Drive and SharePoint make it out to see. So basically fundamentally what's going to happen is your local files probably won't sync properly and then your AI will be trying to read and edit these files and again you'll run into the problem that if someone opens the file locally and checks it out when your AI agent writes that file you're going to end up with this situation. It also does not address the problem of AI going rogue and editing stuff that it shouldn't edit. If you open Claude in the root of your project folder, you're basically giving Claude access to absolutely everything. Okay, so this is the architecture I have been experimenting with. And again, I don't think it's perfect yet. And I'm going to put again, it's probably I'm working through a lot and I'm talking to a lot of people about how to actually address it properly. But it addresses this problem of the file sync AI having access to all the files and not ending up with situations like this. So basically the core idea behind it is each individual person has AI open in a local folder on their computer. They're using something like Claude Co. Their agent harness is in a local folder that has the information in it for the tasks they are trying to do. Your shared project context lives in a GitHub repository. So if you're familiar with this 0.ai context folder that I've spoken about in a lot of other videos I've done, you have your project information. You copy in the static project documents that you're going to need. So for example, the head contract, the drawings, the specifications, all that lives in your local file. This 0.ai context doesn't actually live in the local folder. It lives in a GitHub repository that your agent has access to. So for example, when you use claude code, you can open it in a local folder and using the GitHub MCP, it can also access your GitHub repository. So that's how it gets access to this 0.ai context folder. Now that's going to work well. The reason you that's going to sync automatically one account, one cla account can have a routine going which syncs the 0.ai context folder with the actual project information. So again, this is very similar to this uh the videos I've done on how to structure and set up a construction project knowledge base, but the idea is effectively the same that this 0.ai context folder now lives in GitHub. The user performing the tasks has this has their local desktop folder with the relevant files on it that is producing or using claude to do different tasks. AI has access to the project context and everything that's happening through the zero.ai context folder. Now this is the next important part is that instead of using Excel documents for registers or data sources that you have to maintain. Say for example you're doing cost tracking and you're writing all your invoices in a spreadsheet. That shouldn't live in a spreadsheet within a folder. That should live in a database that Claude has access to. So Claude then has you could just set it up so it only has read access so it can't write to it. But say for example your variation register, your RFI register, payment claims, any sort of register or any data source that's constantly getting updated like say you're tracking production data, say you're tracking quality data, that should live in a tool like air table that you connect to Claude. So just to be clear where we're up to, we've got our 0.ai context folder that has all the context AI needs to do the task that lives in GitHub. We have our local project files that Claude's going to be using to create a schedule, to prepare a budget, to do whatever we want to use AI to do. Then we have our database linked to Claude, which is where all of our live project lives. And then us as the individual, the person who's actually using and managing Claude to do tasks like for example, I don't know, uh, ITP to write an inspection and test plan. We are then the gatekeeper of that task. So Claude has access to all the context it needs to do the task. It has a list of all the other ITPs. The our our copies of those files are synced in our GitHub repository. And then when we actually ask it to do the task, we are the quality control, the gatekeeper and then we as the individual when it's written the ITP for us, we then upload that into the SharePoint folder. The sync on the folder will keep our GitHub repository up to date which contains the markdown representations of these documents. So I hope that makes sense. I feel like I should have put a slide on screen explaining that architecture. Maybe when I refine it a bit more and I spend a bit more time thinking about it. I will put this all together in a slide with some diagrams. But this is just the I think the GitHub repository solves a lot of the problems around that 0.ai AI context folder and different people syncing and updating things in that folder becoming a mess. GitHub again it's very token efficient way for AI to read and access information. All our live project documents are databases because databases have solved this problem of how to access information and for different people to update at the same time. So air table superbase whatever you use as long as you're using some sort of online database not an Excel spreadsheet this will work. And then you have the user has the necessary project documents. So the static project documents they just copy into their local folder. Now the one extension you could add to this is you could also introduce the the relevant MCP connectors. So if you go to customize uh connectors, you could use the 365 Microsoft 365 connector for example which accesses and reads to your project documents. So again I use that example of writing an inspection and test plan. You need the relevant project background information. It looks in the quality control register online to see what ITPs are already written. It can then say there is a ITP that's already written and it's not in the 0.ai context folder or the markdown representation hasn't been created. You could use the Microsoft 365 connector or Claude could use the Microsoft 365 connector to pull in the information it needs. Now again I need to stress test this idea. This is just me sort of experimenting and writing down a few things. But I think this addresses all those problems that we've come across. So now what I want to do is I actually want to step through a workflow and talk about where all these different files would live and what this architecture would look like in practice. So the workflow I'm going to talk about is quality management. So if I just bring up my quality and completions workflow. This is the step-by-step process and where we recommend using AI or not. Just quickly, this is one of 11 domains we've broken construction management up into. All of these domains plus and each step in the process has a corresponding skill associated with it. All those skills plus the workflows and these Excel files and step-by-step instructions on how to build and operate an AI operating system, you can access in Contractor OS, our paid community. We run workshops every week and we also offer unlimited one-on-one support calls to actually help you set up and operate these systems. So, I'll put a link for that in the video description if you want to check it out. Okay, but stepping through the quality management process, I want to talk about where all these different documents type would sit and how AI would be accessing the context to do the task. If we think of the different phases of quality management, we've got setting up our systems. We've then got verifying and validating the work. We've then got managing our deviations and what happens when things change. And then we've got the completion and handover. Okay. So if we work through what should live as a file, what should live as a database and what should sit in a repository. So number one, we've got what will be our actual files that live into SharePoint. We've got our quality management plan. We have the shop drawings and submissions from the vendors. We have our asbuilts. We have our on and manual. We have our inspection and test plans we create. We have our supplier certificates and factory records. And we have our completions management plan. All of this are files that will live in SharePoint. These will live in SharePoint as the raw files, but then we'll have the markdown representations or the markdown versions of these. This is what AI is going to be reading and understanding and using to do different tasks. They will all live as in GitHub repository. So, we have our quality management plan which is the text document. We also have our textbased representation of this in markdown format that lives in our GitHub repo. Again, markdown is much cheaper and easier for AI to read than text. Sorry, not text, Word, or Excel or any of these other file formats. Next, we have what should live as a database. So, we have in a database our requirements register. So, the list of all the requirements we have to do to hand over the project, what we're physically building, that's our requirements register. We could have our ITC's in a database. So, we have our quality lot plan as a database. We have our requirements. And then maybe we actually have our ITC as an online form where information gets attached. We could easily do this in something like Air Table. Again, you could do them as word documents if you actually want them to be printed and handed out. But you could have a quality management or quality lot register and within here have the individual ITC sheets as forms that people fill out on something like Air Table. Again, super easy to set up. We could have a submitt register and a status of where everything's at. We could have our MDR index. So per supplier all the material data registers with our NCR register and we have our punch list and completions register. These would all live as databases that AI can read and write to. And again the beauty of using tools like air table is AI can easily access them but also people can easily access them. Excel is an amazing tool, don't get me wrong, but I think the role of Excel is when you want to do things like estimates or quantity takeoffs or where you're doing workings and you need it more or less as a scratchbat. But if you want good highquality structured data, using tools like air table or superbase, I think is a much better strategy to go down. And the user is the one responsible for you running Claude code again whatever agent harness they want in the local folder and reading and writing to different files. Now, funnily enough, and almost ironic is that while software engineering has Git, construction has document control, which is where a lot of people actually put a lot of time and effort and energy into actually understanding document control process and actually solving a lot of these problems already. So things like two people editing the same scope of works at different times. In practice, this doesn't happen because documents have revisions, standards, and they get submitted and approved and all this is captured in a document control register. So, something that will make your 0.ai context folder work much more effectively, your overall systems work much more effectively is actually integrating these philosophies with the document control process. Now, I know I just said not to use Excel for stuff like this, but I just wanted to do a basic Excel spreadsheet to show you the type of database structure you had. But if you had a list of all your project documents and the standards of them and the revisions of them and when they were last changed and what is actually a work in progress and who is the one responsible for doing it again this sort of control system if we have it as a database that AI can read and it understands this database structure I actually think a document control system integrated with this workflow solves a lot of these problems. So again, basically we're taking the principles that have been around since I I actually have no idea the '7s, the '60s, maybe even before that, where used to have rooms of people with filing cabinets and people whose entire job it was was to put information in the right point. We're actually using those exact same principles and we're just putting a modern spin on them. But the underlying principles of what what like who is editing the file, who has it checked out, what the current revision is, whether it is a draft versus issued, whether it has been transmitted and approved to the client, the revision register, all those principles are exactly the same. Okay, as I said, this topic for me is definitely a work on progress and I don't feel like I have 110% nailed down the best possible way to tackle it. I know smaller companies the 0.ai context folder locally works fine. It's not an issue. It's probably more for bigger companies and thinking about how you actually begin to integrate agents with your different workflows.