GPT's new model Astra is here with its extraordinary 3D modeling capabilities. I tested a full sketch to 3D workflow, one hand sketch and a room list. Astra then creates complete detailed models to size. Its super intelligent spatial reasoning allows you to create incredibly detailed and accurate models, views, renders, and drawings. And it does not stop there. You can use the same workflow to create interactive web apps with controls, labels, filters, and then even connect the model into Unreal Engine for more realistic walkthroughs, procedure environments, and high-quality animations. So, let me show you how this is done. OpenAI are positioning this as a major step towards artificial general intelligence. On the website, beside all the benchmarks and claims, they show a demo of creating a house in Blender complete with renders and a high-fidelity walkthrough in Unreal Engine. After seeing this, I wanted to see if a same idea would work for a small architectural concept from scratch. Here, I'm using the ChatGPT desktop app, but switching over to Codex, as Astra will be doing a lot of coding for us. First, you need to create a clean empty project folder, so that all the generated files will be placed inside here. And also, I'll add one simple starting sketch, as it will be interesting to see how far we can explore a simple idea before diving into plans and sections. I'll begin in Blender to generate the base model, but in future videos, I'll show you how you can connect to similar workflows with Rhino and Revit as well. So, subscribe to see these releases. And I'll start with a simple prompt. So, build a contemporary Japanese villa in Blender, base it on the reference sketch in the folder, and the provided space schedule, which I'll attach at the end, and try to keep the proportions as close to the sketch. And most importantly, I'll specify to use the Blender API headlessly to write the script to generate the file and then take screenshots to confirm progress. This is a far more token efficient way of modeling without connecting to a MCP server, which is a way of letting AI control the software directly, which I will be demonstrating later in Unreal Engine. And here is the list of rooms and target areas. I'll also ask Astra to make a plan first so I can check whether it is heading in the right direction before it starts building. You can notice here I'm using the plus plan and keeping Astra on a lower usage setting. And this is to show you that you don't always need to max out your token budget when you're using this method. In this working panel, you can see Astra's reasoning. It goes to search for references, calculate the likely spaces, work out how it should be arranged, and decide what the villa should look like. I always recommend this planning step because it gives the AI a chance to research and reason for the design, especially when you are starting with limited information, like just the sketch and areas here. If you do provide scaled plans, sections, and elevations, it can of course use those to build much more accurately exactly to what you want. A render now has popped up on my screen. But what is remarkable is that this is not an AI-generated image, but an actual render of the 3D model it made. Because the AI is not directly using Blender, it does not see the live model. So it generates renders and screenshots back into the project folder to confirm what it has done. Using pure code is far more efficient to generate simpler models and processes, although using MCP has far more control for detailed models. In the project folder, you will find all of these scripts, renders, and the main 3D file. The villa model is not very complex and just situated around a central courtyard, but still in images, you can see the furniture and material creation is well thought out. Also, just from one sketch, it produced all of this in under 15 minutes. And in my test, it only used around half of my 5-hour plus usage window. Which is roughly about 10% of my weekly usage of Astra. But let's actually take a look at the model itself. I can open up the Blender file that was created. And it's matching what I expected from the render. But you can see here there's clean geometry, furniture, surroundings, and the detail set actually amazing. You can also see there's a lighting setup, and it produced extra assets such as the tree, fences, and paths. Even each of the floorboards are produced and the roof tiles. From the outside looks really strong, but if you hide the roof and look inside, this way it becomes even more impressive. Astra has modeled the structure, furniture, tatami mats, and even a simple roof structure. To note, this is also auto scale and following my area schedule. And this was just from a prompt and a sketch. And I managed to create it all under 15 minutes without any manual adjustments. Of course, I can go back and prompt to make obvious changes to the arrangements, furniture, for example, and add doors. But this proves how remarkable Astra really is at spatial understanding and reasoning, which is crucial in the field of architecture. The best part is that once we have a 3D model, we're not limited to static renders. We can use this to create interactive presentations. Astra is also extremely strong at building web apps. So for the next step, I'll try transform this villa into a web app that you can navigate, explore, and present more clearly. In Codex, I've prompted using the created Blender file and Blender API access, export a GLB file and the relevant room data as JSON. So you need to export it as a GLB file, so it actually be used in the web. And also having additional info such as JSONs with room data will allow to embed this into the interactive app so you can select these rooms. I will leave this to run. And about 20 minutes later, it creates this full file structure for an interactive React app. I did hit my 5-hour usage limit during this stage, but after refresh, the completed app was ready in the folder. And when I start the React framework, you can see this model running as an interactive experience. And the output here is astonishing. Not only is it exactly like my input model, but the interactivity and UI is on another level. I can navigate between different views, toggles between the levels, or the rooms are cleanly labeled and organized. And in the left, I can even select the name of the room which has the exact area size and move to that space. The icing on the cake is that I can even move to first person to navigate around. Of course, I can see the materials here are clearly lacking, but I didn't provide the AI any materials or textures, so this could easily be fixed. This could then be hosted and shared with clients or colleagues. But what if we wanted more realism and a first-person spatial experience in more detail? That is where Unreal Engine comes in. For this part, I will use an MCP plugin which allows the AI to directly control the software rather than just making scripts in the background. And this is freely available for Unreal Engine 5.8. I'll do a separate video showing how to get that working, but you can find here in the documentation the free plugins that you need to install and how to set it up. I have loaded a sample Unreal scene with a simple landscape. The reason for starting with a basic environment first is that Astra can take the villa asset via the MCP connection and then procedurally add and adjust the surrounding context, such as the existing trees, rocks, and paths, but manipulate them through PCG graphs in a more complex ways. So, it's far more efficient than starting from scratch and not having any assets. Once you have Codex installed and the MCP server running as per the documentation, I will open up the main project folder in Explorer for Unreal Engine. Right click, open PowerShell, and activate Codex through the terminal there. And type Codex to start it up. So, here I don't need to ask for one large prompt. I can break it up and speak to it more naturally and watch as it works. So, first I'll ask it to import the villa as a GOB into the lake scene, place it in the landscape near the lake, and then add some procedural forest and rocks around it to make it look more integrated. The main difference between using an MCP server and just scripting via API, like we did with Blender, is that you have much more natural conversation, guiding it through the changes and additions. This has great advantages as you have full control. However, it does come at a great cost, which is both time and token count. Here I'm speeding through the video, while in Codex I added prompts to guide and create procedural scripts for placement of materials, elements, and switching out the materials with Unreal ones and updating the light setup. I also prompted to add in various blueprints for first and third-person walk-throughs, set up camera views and sequences. And so, you can really control almost everything in Unreal. Because this is a very token-heavy process, I would still recommend using MCP mainly for the more technical parts, such as graph setup, blueprint creation, and complex asset placement, rather than trying to generate every single detail this way. It took about 2 hours over two sessions, including all the iteration and reviewing. But the intelligence behind it is genuinely impressive. And you could take this much further by adding UI controls, dashboards, filters, and more interactive blueprints for automated door opening, buttons, and data info, just like our web app. I'm also currently doing further research for a city-scale digital twins and master planning with Astro, which I think it could have an incredible impact. I'm generally excited about where this is going. But with all that said, in the end, it did exactly what I wanted with this first-person style walk-through of the building and bar's surroundings. Considering that I start with nothing more than a rough sketch and a room list, I'm generally amazed by how far AI has come. The implications of this kind of spatial intelligence for architecture, 3D design, visualization, and client presentations are huge. I'll be releasing more videos where I push this further, especially with Rhino and Revit and real architectural drawings. So, I'll see you in the next video.