Creating a 3D model is now one click away, but you've probably seen the results and they're still far from perfect. Meaning, how usable are these AI features if they're still producing inconsistent and inaccurate results? So, in this video, I'm going to try to accurately model this house design in three steps using GPT Astro 6. Starting by bringing in some references and structure and then diving into the modeling integration and finally finishing with editing and verifying the accuracy of the model. [snorts] So, we're going to get started in Chachi Batique. And what I'm going to do first is copy in all the details that I'm going to include for this project. whether it's the dimensions, the area, and the other features that I want included within this house project. And in addition, I'm also going to add in files for the exterior inspiration and interior design inspiration for the styles that I want the architecture and the interior design to resemble, as well as the two floor plans that we're going to include. And so from there, we're going to type in a more detailed text prompt. All right, let's go ahead and get our text prompt. So, it's taken all the information that I've input and put it into a digestible text prompt that we'll use to create our 3D model in Chat GPT. So, it's also gone into the details of every space, what needs to be included, what it needs to look like, how everything comes together. And so from there, we're going to copy and paste it into the desktop version of Chat GBT so that we can accurately create our 3D model. [music] So I've copied in that text prompt and then I'm going to add in the same reference images that I did for the text prompt just to give it an added layer of accuracy. Let's go for medium generation. And from this point on, we're going to see if AI can take care of the rest and maintain the accuracy and consistency that we're looking for. This is totally up to you whether you're comfortable with AI accessing your computer, but it sometimes asks you a question if you want to allow chatd to use Rhino or SketchUp or whichever program that you're using in this conversation. And so what this will do is if you give it access, it'll open up the app and then start modeling within that program. Obviously, this is a little scary that it can just open up applications and start doing tasks within it. On one end of the spectrum, it's helpful cuz it can access all the tools and the features that you need, but on the other hand, it's like, is this too much control for AI to have, and is my job just going to become obsolete at one point? I really don't know. I'm probably leaning towards the ladder on that. Let's see how well it can model this within Rhino. Okay, we have generated our 3D model, and this is off of first glance what it looks like. Honestly, I think it looks pretty good. But really, it can look as good as it wants, but if it's not accurate to the floor plans and the style that I input, I think for style, it at least did a pretty good job. If we go over to this perspective and we open up the style reference, we have this wood cladding on this upper massing and then we have, you know, we see this stone, the stack stone down below on this lower level. So, I think for the most part it got the materials right from the style that we wanted. But we also have this floor plan that I want to make sure is completely accurate. So, it's 46x 42 ft. So, let's go in and test out the floor plan. Okay. Right there. So, we have the floor plan view and then side by side with the actual floor plan that I inputed as reference. It looks like all the rooms are in the proper locations. We have the two-car garage, the great room, the setback entry with the kitchen, bedroom 3 on the left, and bedroom two on the right with kind of this patio courtyard [music] space right there. Obviously, it looks like we have doors and different entry points put together and modeled. But here's the real test. Are the dimensions actually correct? So, let's check out from this corner to this corner, we have 46 ft as the distance. And then from the front facade, it's 42 ft. So, the dimensions are accurate. I'm honestly surprised because normally with the models I've tested, those dimensions are not very accurate or it skews some things. So, that's actually pretty encouraging. [music] So, this is how the floor plan was modeled in 3D. So, we can kind of identify where the kitchen's at, where we have the great room and the living room. Although, the chairs are all backwards and not in the right location. Kind of nitpicky, but you know, you got to get those things right if you're AI. I mean, I'm paying you the big bucks. So, if you're a chatbt, you can't be doing that. And then we have this staircase modeled right here as well. Um, let's continue to see how it looks as we progress upwards. [music] Now, let's look at the second floor. So, you can see we have this interior, we have this main space on the second floor, and then we have these outdoor patio arrangements as well. [music] There are some detailing errors where this railing, this glass railing doesn't continue. There's kind of an opening. Obviously, huge concerns there. Also, the corner conditions at [music] these modeled elements are are not ideal. Although, it does look like they started to block these wall components together. I think that's a good modeling touch. But again, at this corner, there were some detailing errors with this railing. I mean, they left this door open. I don't think they know anything about security. AI is pretty open with their privacy apparently wanting anyone to walk in. These plants in the planter bed, not great at all. So overall, I'd give the modeling like a 7.5 out of 10. Okay, if you look at it from a distance, kind of looking around, pretty impressive that this was created in 15 minutes. There's obviously some good details. I mean, it has the driveway to the garage, the the walkway up to the entry. These columns don't look like they're in the right place. to this gap [music] above the garage to the second floor. So things that obviously humans would understand are not okay, but the AI isn't really picking up on that. Looks like there is just open roof to this part of the building. I mean, [music] I was really excited when we were in floor plan seeing how it placed all the rooms in the right locations. The square footage, the sizing of this was correct. And then, you know, the more I look at it, the more detail I get into it, it just kind of messed things up. Now, that being said, because a lot of these core elements were modeled correctly in the right place, you know, that does mean I can just go back to [music] the chat and make some modifications and changes. So, if I wanted to, some things I would correct. So, we can just go back to the chat and make those modifications and changes. But overall, I think this is still a pretty significant change to the architecture industry knowing that 3D modeling is being done by AI. Obviously, having it as a final result, something that you document from this is is not there yet. But keep in mind, when we're doing our modeling process for a project, it takes steps and iterations to get it right. Obviously, the first model isn't what we're using. We make changes, we make iterations, etc. And so, that's going to be the same thing here with AI modeling. It may give you a good first pass. Maybe the first floor is good and then you have to remodel the second floor or you start to do only certain components. That's up to you. Obviously, it's not there to be used for final products, but it's really coming a long way. It's not as far away as people think. You just have to think about the exponential growth it's had in the last couple years. [music] And I honestly recommend maybe not doing it for an entire building, but certain elements. like if you need some sight context, if you're dealing with maybe a couple different window variations that you want to test out or different styles of like a roof or raincreen, I think that could be more beneficial in terms of the use cases. And so, if you want to check out some of my AI resources and school community to get access to what I'm working on and how to create what I'm creating, then click the link in the description below to check that out. Thank you guys for watching and welcome to the grind. [music]