One of the biggest challenges you'll run into when trying to use AI for construction tasks is actually getting it to read construction drawings. Particularly if you use Claude, because Claude historically has been quite bad at analyzing drawings and visual information. In this video, I'm going to show you two workarounds where if you want to use Claude or ChatGPT or even Google Gemini, this will enhance the model's ability to understand construction drawings. So, to explain why this is powerful, I want to just briefly explain what the actual problem is. So, number one, if I have a set of construction drawings like this, there's 25 drawings, it's probably going to be around 15 to 20 megabytes. So, if I try to just take these and upload these into a chat, it is not going to work. So, I mean, maybe it will, maybe Claude's got better, but what it is basically doing is it's trying to read 20 megabytes of files. Every drawing it looks at, it has to go through this process of converting that PDF to text. Well, sorry, this was 10.7 megabytes. So, I'm actually interested to see if it would do it. But, what's going to happen is this whole set of drawings is just jammed into the context window for the model. So, we're also going to run into the issue of context rot, which basically means the more information we give AI, the less likely it is to answer accurately. That's what happened. It said, "Failed to upload drawings. This format may not be supported or the files are corrupted." But, basically, if you look at the Claude docs, you should be able to upload 10 megabytes of drawings. You look at the size of the context window, on paper it works, but if you actually try to upload it to the chat, it will not work. So, on paper, Claude's solution to this problem is you create a project. So, oh, let's uh let's call this warehouse construction project. I'll create a project, and what I should be able to do is upload the files to here, drag them and drop them, and it should do the same thing. It should embed this into what is referred to as a rag database, then I can query specific parts of the files. Now, for some reason, you do this same thing, you will almost run into the exact same problem. I don't think this is going to upload either. It has the same challenges of uploading large files. And there we go, it didn't actually upload the drawings to the chat. So, the chat and projects don't work. The third way people think that this is overcome is using Cowerk. But again, Cowerk has massive limit limitations with performing this task. So, if you aren't familiar with Cowerk, basically what it is is it is the same as Claude chat, but you open it in a folder on your desktop. So, if I open that folder that those drawings are in. So, I've selected a folder in my desktop that contains these drawings, and I can just say to it, "Give me a summary of the construction drawings in this folder." And I'll just make sure it reads the right file. Now, what Cowerk does is it will go to that file, and it will again try to take that whole set of PDF documents and jam it into the context window, and it's going to use around 30 times the number of tokens. So, it will kill your usage. If you're on a pro subscription, you'll almost use all your usage going through a single set of drawings like this. And again, it isn't going to be as accurate, because it's trying to put too much information into the context window. So, again, 10 minutes later when this finishes running, if my pro usage doesn't cap out and I have to either upgrade to let it keep going, again, it isn't going to be answering very accurately. And again, we're using a Claude model to do the visual processing and understanding of drawings when Claude isn't the best visual analysis model. Although, Opus 4.7 has actually got a lot better. So, a lot of the time I was using Gemini for analyzing drawings. Recently, Opus 4.7 was a big step up in quality of being able to analyze visual information, which for us, being able to analyze construction drawings is obviously essential. So, the better way to basically use your drawings as context for construction tasks, like being able to query or being able to say prepare an estimate or being able to say, "Well, what drawing are the material specs on?" is we actually want to turn our drawings into some sort of searchable database. So, for this project as an example, and again, I'm still in the early stages of experimenting with exactly how to build this. We're basically going to turn our drawings into a database that we can link to Claude and then query it. So, this is using a platform called Airtable for my database, but you could do this with There There's several other tools you could use through this. You You could use Google Sheets. You Excel wouldn't work well for this, because Excel, when Claude reads Excel, it jams the whole Excel document into the context window. So, what I'm going to say is, "Using my Airtable MCP connection, can you give me a summary of the warehouse drawings?" So, what it's doing here is Claude I've connected Claude to Airtable, and it can now search through this database, and it has all the information on the drawings summarized in text format. So, this database, I've simply given access to Claude, and Claude can create these same summaries. Again, depending how much information and what structure of data I can put in it, I can get Claude to do some quite clever and interesting tasks using a lot less less context and being able to answer much more quickly and effectively. Really, the analogy we're saying is it's like giving someone a set of 30 or 100 drawings and saying, "What is the height of the retaining wall?" versus giving someone the retaining wall drawing and telling them this is the height of the retaining wall. So, it's basically a way of condensing and creating context. And to do this, we're basically creating a database with all the relevant information from the drawings. So, because Now, I'm probably going to try and do a version of this with Claude as well, because overall I find Claude much easier to use, but the tool I used to do this was I used Google's Antigravity. So, if you're unfamiliar with Antigravity, you can think of it as like Claude Cowerk for Google. It is a free tool if you have a Google account. All you have to do is go to antigravity.google. Go to their webpage and simply download it and install it. And then again, it is a desktop agent where you open it within your project file path. So, you simply open it in You select the folder where your construction drawings are, and you open it within that folder. The next thing you need to do is you need to set up your MCP is just a fancy way of connecting AI tools, and go to manage MCPs, and I've already set this up, but if you I don't know how to close that sidebar. Ah, here we go. You go You set up an MCP connection, and all you have to do is And you can get AI to write you the code that does this. You basically paste in this code, and you put your specific Airtable token in here. To get your specific Airtable connection token, you simply go to Airtable. You click on your account. You click on Builder's Hub. And then you click on your personal access tokens, and these are the tokens. Now, I shouldn't have shown you my tokens, so I'm going to go recycle all of them. But, all you would do is click on the token, and then you replace the code in here. You replace this token key with your code. But, again, because I shouldn't have shown you that, I'm going to quickly go I'll recycle all these tokens so you don't see it. The next thing you do is you simply open Antigravity in your folder. Then I have a prompt I wrote that goes through a couple of steps. It takes the set of construction drawings. So, this is a merged set of 25 drawings. It breaks them down into individual drawings. It extracts the vector data from every drawing, which is this layer of text here, which again is much easier for AI to process, because again, these models fundamentally are trained on text in, text out. So, it's much easier for AI to process a chunk of text than it is to process an image. Within the vector data, it also has the positions and orientations of all this stuff. And then, basically, I'm telling it to extract all that information, then to write that to an Airtable database. So, if I go to the desktop folder where I have Antigravity open, what it is actually done is this set of drawings, it is broken up into individual PDFs, because again, AI is going to work much better when it's doing small incremental steps. So, first thing is it splits the PDF out. It then converts every drawing into an image. It extracts all the vector data, and it wrote some scripts for doing this. So, it's running Python code to actually go and go go through and execute all these steps. Then it writes the results to my Airtable database. And with this my Airtable database, again, you can connect this to Claude as well as Antigravity, you can now search your set of drawings, and it can basically pull data as it needs. You could write some instructions that if it can't find exactly what it wants in the drawings, to go back and refer to the original PDF. Using this method, you'll find AI is much more accurate at reading construction drawings and getting the information it needs quickly. Now, the second way you could do this, which is potentially quicker and easier, and again, it bene- it uses what is like a better way to read drawings, which is the Google tools, is you can use Google Notebook LM and integrate that with Claude. So, if you aren't familiar with Notebook LM, what it is it is Google's database tool, which it's actually designed for university students studying, but interestingly, it works very well for a broad range of construction tasks. I've done some videos on Notebook LM and why I think it's a really good tool for construction, but all I'm going to do is I'm going to upload my set of drawings here. And again, Google has very good multimodal capacity. So, it isn't So, it actually embeds these documents quite well. Then, I'm I've connected Notebook LM to Claude code. So, what I can do here is again, I can open Claude code in that same folder with the drawings. And what I can do is I can ask Claude to query the drawings in Notebook LM and to create a text summary of the drawings. So, you could do this in an Airtable database, or you could do this as a .md file file that lives in your folder. Now, the actually getting Notebook LM to integrate with Claude is a tiny bit finicky, but there's people have made tons of really good YouTube videos on exactly how to do it. So, if you just search on YouTube how to integrate Notebook LM with Claude, I'll I'll even put a link in the description to some good videos that explain it. But, basically, there is some very simple ways to get them to talk to each other. And then, if I just go back to this, when this finishes embedding, which is taking a couple seconds, all I'm going to ask it to do is I have uploaded that set of construction Whoop. I've uploaded the set of construction drawings in this folder to Notebook LM. But, let me write the prompt first, and then I'll explain it. Okay, so what I'm instructing AI to do, and again, this is something I want to improve on and experiment with a lot more, but I'm basically saying the goal is to create a drawing.md file for each drawing by querying Notebook LM and to basically clearly articulate to someone who wants to do a task, like prepare an estimate or produce a program, they should only have to look at that Notebook and they should only have to look at that drawing.md file. Okay, so now this is finished executing. I'll just say here is the Notebook LM. I don't actually know the term for this. Is it a Here is the Notebook. Here is the Notebook. That's the correct term. And I'll link it that. Now, what again, I want to experiment with exactly how to do this, but what I really wanted to do is I want to extract all the material specifications, what's on the drawings, dimensions, absolutely everything, and turn this into drawing.md files. Because again, these will be basically text descriptions of the drawings. And if we look at the output of that in our folder, we have these drawing.md files for every single construction drawing within the package, and these are basically a text representation of exactly what is on the drawing. So, it's got basically, the contents, the structure, information. It's got It's tried to extract dimensions. And again, you can tailor this and improve it. This is an initial experiment for me. I want to do a lot more work on exactly how to extract this data and what to put in the MD file. So, again, MD files is a different way of storing the data. You again could potentially get Notebook LM to write this to Airtable. Now, if I open Co-work within this folder and I say, "Using the drawings.md files, uh give me a brief summary of Let's say I'd say this drawing, 5120 of the S003 drawing." And now, it again, it's just simply going and reading that text document. Again, there's a ton of different ways you could do this. I think I'll probably the next way I'm going to try and experiment to do this is going to be purely in Claude, because again, Claude Opus 4.7, which just came out recently, the visual analysis on it is really like a step above. And you can see, we're just going back to the drawing example, it answered incredibly simply. So, on on average, using a drawing.md file will use 30 times less context than having to read the equivalent PDF. So, again, this is just a preprocessing step. Reducing amount of context, it's going to be faster, it's going to use less tokens, it's going to be more accurate. But again, I think I have to do a lot more experimentation about the best way to do things. Some ways, Antigravity I found a little bit frustrating, because it doesn't seem to have as much agency and direction as Claude. But again, work in progress, going to do some more videos on this.