As you may know, Blender has been steadily gaining ground in Arcus. It was once seen just as a hobbyist tool, but now it is bringing some serious interest from architects and 3D artists in general due to its rapid rate of development in addition to its no cost and open-source nature. Over the past few years, Blender has evolved into a serious contender in professional pipelines, thanks to upgrades in rendering, both for cycles, which is the main render engine, in addition to Eevee, which is for realtime rendering, without forgetting to mention thousands of add-ons that can help you tailor your workflow. But the question is, is Blender going to take the share of paid commercial software such as 3ds Max and SketchUp, especially in architectural visualization? So, one of the biggest boost to Blender's Arcis capabilities has been its built-in render engines, both Cycles and Eevee. You see, Cycles is a path tracer engine that delivers global illumination, realistic reflections, and soft shadows. In other words, the kind of photorealistic lighting effects that Arc Viz artists expect. Eevee, on the other hand, is a real-time engine that favors speed and interactivity. As you might have guessed, it is useful for quick previews or live walkthroughs. Many architects use cycles for polish renders, especially for interiors and exteriors, and then switch to EV when they need immediate and game engine like responsiveness, especially with EV Next in Blender 5 and beyond. And by the way, out of the box, Blender is a general 3D modeler, but its add-ons ecosystem has a vote to cover the specialized needs of architectural design. [music] For example, the popular occupac add-on provides a suite of parametric architectural elements allowing you to generate walls, doors, windows, stairs, and roofs. I mean, you can do that with just a few clicks instead of painstaking manual modeling. Likewise, the open source Blender BIM, which is an add-on that brings full beam capabilities into Blender, can do also great things. Beyond these there are numerous other occasions that can help you do the job from vegetation and foliage to materials in addition to parametric modeling and you name it. The big question is whether Blender is strong enough to compete with the industry heavyweights like Autodesk 3ds Max especially when paired with render engines such as Ver and Corona. It is true that Max has been around for a long time and it has been the gold standard for Archis for many decades and a 2024 survey shows that about 59% of Arvis artists still use Max versus only 9% to 10% using Blender. Moreover, Mac slots into established pipelines. And this is the case especially in firms that also use AutoCAD and Revit and it benefits from the mature ecosystem of plugins and a huge library of readym made assets and materials developed over the years especially for Arctiz work. However, Blender is quickly closing the gap in capability. In terms of rendering realism, Blender cycles engine uses the same underlying techniques and I'm referring to Vray. In fact, Vray is available in Blender 2, by the way. [music] So, if you're using Mac for just Vray, in my opinion, Blender is going to be a good option for you, too. When it comes to modeling workflow, Blender can handle complex architectural models, especially with the help of some add-ons for precision and parametrics. Though, Max has still an adding certain specialized modeling plugins. So, I think one of the biggest problems for you using Blender is mostly dealing with clients and colleagues using Max. if you're working for a company or some important clients that might need max projects in addition to some other small inconveniences. At the other end of the spectrum, Blender is also measured against SketchUp, a favorite among architects, especially for concept modeling and simplicity. It is also backed by an enormous 3D warehouse of pre-mode modeled furniture, mixtures, and entourage, which means building out a scene can be as simple as dragging and dropping some assets. And this simplicity, as you can see, makes SketchUp the go-to tool for many architectural firms, especially for the early design phases and client mockups. Blender, by contrast, is less immediately intuitive. I'm talking pure architectural modeling. It is a more complex 3D suite that isn't tailored to architecture out of the box because it is an animation software in the first place. But there is no denying that an architect can sketch out a floor plan faster in SketchUp compared to vanilla Blender. However, Blender's versatility pays off as project move forward towards visualization. I mean, it can create much more detailed geometry and handle complex organic forms or custom details that SketchUp might struggle with. Naturally, SketchUp tends to be favored in larger firms with established workflows. Whereas Blender's flexibility, especially when you consider it is free, makes it especially attractive to small teams and freelancers. In comparison to Blender, SketchUp often relies on thirdparty engines like Vray, and many architects use Inscape or similar realtime renderers in combination with SketchUp to get instant walkthroughs and realtime renders for client presentations. And currently I believe using Blender for ArcVvis is one of the easiest choices out there especially for someone who is new to 3D and Arc in general. And I think this applies too even if you are working as a professional. And there you have it guys. If you like this video, please give it a thumbs up. Also, please subscribe to this channel to receive more videos like this. Thank you very much for watching and I will see you in the next one.