What's up guys? Justin here with the AI Essentials. So, in today's video, we're going to talk about how we can set up an MCP server with Blender so that you can use either ChatGpt or Claude or other AI tools in order to create 3D models using AI. Let's go ahead and just jump into it. Okay, so in order to do this, you're going to need two things. You're going to need Blender itself, which you can download just by going to blender.org, We're going to download right here and we're just going to pick whatever the newest LTS version is. So in this case, it's going to be version 5.2.1. But for now, we want to download and install Blender so that you can open up Blender on your computer. Then you're going to need either a ChatgBT or a Claude account and you're going to download the desktop version of one of these, right? So ChatGBT or Claude, whichever one works for you. And so we're going to go ahead and we're going to download those and we're going to hop over into ChatGpt. Before we get started, be aware you are taking an AI coding tool and you are connecting it to Blender and you are allowing it to execute code on your computer to do something inside of a program. In this case, we're using code in order to let this tool drive Blender and create 3D models. Depending on your settings and permissions, it may be able to access and modify other files on your computer. Usually, it's going to ask for permission when it does these things, but just be aware this is actively modifying things on your computer. So, always review any permission requests it asks. Avoid using it around sensitive files and only install tools from sources that you trust. There are real security risks involved with doing this, and I want to be upfront about that. So proceed carefully. Use this setup at your own risk. If you're not super comfortable with this, you might want to consider setting up a virtual machine or something like that that kind of like sandboxes this from the rest of your computer. So just be aware there is a risk there um that you should be aware of when you're doing this. And so one thing I always like to do whenever I set up at least the chat GBT app, it's a little bit different in Claude is I like to go into your settings. So you can go to the lower left under settings. There's an option in here for full access that gets installed by default that I don't really love. It basically says that by default chat GBT runs with full access to your entire computer. And I don't really like having that toggled on. So I usually toggle that off and turn this off. Again, remember that you are dealing with a tool that executes code on your computer. So I would definitely recommend being cautious when you're doing this. I like to turn this off um and make it ask me for permission before it um tries to access those other files. Okay. So, the other thing we're going to need is the actual code for the MCP server itself, right? And so, basically what we're doing here is we're taking um your AI tool, whether that's uh ChatGpt's Codeex or Claude Code, and we're taking Blender. We're installing an add-on in Blender that makes it so that um basically we can set up a server that talks between your AI tool and within Blender itself. So, this is going to allow us to actually execute the code. Now, what I usually like to do with this is I like to just download the whole thing. And there there are multiple different MCPs. I like this one um because it's got a ton of stars, right? It's got like the social proof that people are paying attention to it and it seems to work fairly well. There's other options out there, but this is the one that I prefer. And so note that right here on the right there's a link to their website where it's got more like comprehensive instructions. What I like about this page is it gives you like the step by step of exactly what you need to do. Okay. And so you can see this has four steps, right? You're going to start with installing UV. Okay. And so UV is a package manager and it helps us install and run the Blender MCP and everything it runs on. It's not the AI and it's not the Blender add-on. It's a tool that helps us get the server up and running. Then you've got the second step which is registering the MCP server with your AI tool. So this is basically going to tell Codeex or Claude Code which command it should use to start the Blender connection and make the Blender tools available to the AI, right? It's like facilitating the connection. Then we're going to install the add-on and enable it. And then we're going to start the server. So let's go ahead and let's start by installing UV. Okay? And I'm going to show you something because I want you to start thinking like this. So what we're going to do is we're actually going to talk with our um with our AI tool and ask it exactly how to do this installation because it's going to walk us through it in a way that no tutorial really can. Okay. And so basically what I've done is I've written a prompt and the prompt just says I want to install this MCP server and I linked to the GitHub so it could see it. And then I said this page has additional instructions. I linked to the instructions page and then I said please give me a stepbystep series of steps in order to install this. So basically I'm saying explain to me how to do this in stepbystep um easy to understand language. Right? We're going to go ahead and we're going to click right here. And what it's going to do is it's going to go review those things and it's going to come back this series of instructions. Now, one thing to note while it's doing this, you are going to have to do a little bit of stuff inside of PowerShell or give the Blender or give Codeex access to PowerShell in order to do that. Um, a lot of that just kind of depends on your risk tolerance. It's not especially hard, but it can be a little bit scary when you first do it. Don't worry too much about it for right now. um because this is going to give us easy steps that we can follow. Okay. And so this is what I really love about this tool is it tells you exactly what to do. Now, I do recommend when you look at this um first of all, there's two paths you can go down, right? So you can see how what it's asking us to do is it's asking us to go into PowerShell and put a command in there. Now, it's important that you understand at least to a certain degree what you're doing. You don't have to know exactly what it's doing, but you need to be able to look at it and, you know, kind of give it like the mental, does this make sense? Does it not? And so, this is basically telling us to open PowerShell and paste a command. And so, if you're ever concerned, you can just type in what does this code do? And you can drop it in here, right? So, you can just click on AI mode and do that. And this will tell you exactly what this is doing. And if you're concerned that it's safe or not, you can ask inside of like Google AI mode and say, "Is this code safe?" And like it should be able to tell you. So if you're ever concerned about something like that, don't be afraid to like search it online. Um, but in general, like these instructions are usually pretty good. Again though, just remember that you are executing code on your computer. But what we're going to do is we're going to open up PowerShell. So, we're just looking for Windows PowerShell right here. And I'm just going to take this piece of piece of code and just drop it in here like this. And so, what that's going to do is that's going to install UV. See what it does? It goes through, it downloads UV, um, and it tries to install it. Now, my issue here is that UV is already existing because I have multiple different MCP servers on here. It shouldn't look like this for you. One thing that could be good for you though is if you run into this error and it says something like this won't work. Copy paste the error back into codeex and say can you give me a reason why this isn't working. Most of the time codeex can read the error figure out what it is and give you instructions on what to do. That's what I want you to get familiar with is if something breaks like codeex is where you go to ask the question. If something breaks claude code is where you go to ask the question. Now, you should look at the code and make sure that you generally understand what it's doing from a security standpoint, but if something breaks, that's really the path you should be going down. And so, once we've done that, you should have gotten an installation complete. And so, the next thing we're going to do is now it's going to um we're going to use PowerShell. I don't know why we're closing PowerShell and reopening it, but what we're going to do now is we're going to copy this piece of code, right? And this is just going through and it's just checking the version of those tools. So, we're going to type in here. It's going to tell me what version is installed on my computer. Again, if you get an error message, paste it back into your AI engine and ask what the error message means. But now this is up and running. So, next step is we need to download the Blender add-on. And so, what we can do is we can just go back into that MCP file on GitHub. So, we're going to go back to GitHub right here. And we are looking for we are looking for add-on. py or you can just download the whole thing. Like that's usually what I do is I just download the zip file right here. Unless this is a super massive file, which I don't think this one is. It's tiny. I just download the whole thing and then I have access to all of it. Then I'll just go show it in folder. Okay. So then we're going to rightclick on the downloaded file and we're going to extract it to your computer. And if you're anything like me, I usually right click on it and I scan it for viruses with my virus scan software. I mean, it should be fine, but I usually like to do that anyway. Um, but then once we do that, right, we can double click in here and we can see inside of that folder that that add-on. py file is in there. I have the other ones in here, too, in case I need to drop them inside of chat GPT and ask it for something or something like that. But now we're going to move on to the next step. And so, next step is to open Blender 5.2 and install the add-on. So, we're going to go inside of Blender. We're going to do an edit preferences. We're going to go to add-ons and we're going to click the little dropown. We're going to click on install from disk and we're going to go find that Python file. And so it should just be right here. It should just be add-on. py. We're going to double click and we're going to install it. So, and it should show up right here. MCP for Blender. So, we can see it at the moment. And if we tap the N key over here inside of our workspace, right, and we look for this, MCP for Blender is going to show up in there. Now, we're going to hop back in the chat GBT app and see what our next step is. Okay. And so, you can see that our next step is starting the connection inside of Blender. So, we'll just hop back into Blender. We'll click on the option for connect to MCP server right here. And it should show as connected. That just means on the Blender side, this is now running. But we need to go back to chatgbt and register it or back to codeex and register it so that they can talk together. Okay. So, next step is we need to find where the UVX tool lives on your computer, right? So, basically, we're just going to use PowerShell to go find where UVX lives on your computer. All you have to do is copy this right here and just paste it in. That's going to show you where that lives on your computer, right? So, mine lives on like local, whatever. Um, so we know where that is and we're going to use that in a second. And then finally, what we need to do is we need to add this to the codeex configuration file so C codeex can read it. Now, you could just say, "Hey, could you do step six for me?" And it'll do that. Just know that if you do that, it's going to be executing code on your computer. Some people are okay with that, some people aren't, which is why some people set up virtual machines. For something like this, I'm not really especially worried about it, and that's probably what I would do. But just be aware that there are risks associated with that. So we're just going to go into this next step and we'll just do it manually. So we're just going to copy this command right here. It's basically just trying to find this configuration tool or this configuration file and open it in Notepad. So we're just going to drop this in. It goes and finds it and it'll open it in Notepad right here. So basically this contains the information that the tool needs in order to speak to Blender. And so in this case, what it's going to tell us is we need to add this right here to that file at the bottom. Right? So this piece of code right here, if this command path is different, so when we did step five and we found this, if this is different, you just need to paste in the other location, right? But I'm just going to copy this over right here. I'm just going to drop it in that file. And so you can see how I've dropped that in here. Then I'm just going to save that file and I'm going to close out of it. So now we're good with that. And so now what we need to do is we need to restart codeex so it pulls the newest version of that tol file. So just close codeex. You want to close it out completely. So make sure you close it out in your tray as well. So you just need to go down into your tray. I don't think I can see it on this computer cuz this isn't my primary monitor. But just go down into your tray, rightclick and exit. And then we're just going to open it back up. Right. And we can go right back to that chat. Right. So we've restarted codeex. We've made sure that this is running over in Blender. And now we're just going to say, can you test and see if the MCP connection to Blender is working? So, what this is going to do is it's now going to reach out to Blender, try to find it on that port, and see if it can do anything. And notice how it's usually going to ask for permission. It's saying, "Hey, can I run this tool in order to do this?" In this case, I mean, you basically have to say yes if you want it to talk to Blender. Um, but these are basically permissions where it's saying, "Hey, can I do this?" So that you're in control of what it's doing versus it just doing a whole bunch of things on your computer without giving it permission. And so you can see how again it's asking if it can run the tool to get scene info. I'm going to say yes, and I'm going to allow it. And it's going to go get the info about the scene from Blender. Now, if this is set up properly, it should say, "Yep, got this information." And then we can test modeling, right? So, it says right here, yes, the MCP connection is working right here. So, it does look like I'm getting a little bit of an issue here on a version mismatch. So, again, all I'm going to do is I'm just going to I want to make sure that I've installed that UVX in there. So, I'm just going to go into the PowerShell, run this. It's going to run it, right? Like this all worked. It says it's installed. And then I'm just going to restart Blender. Okay. And so, like full disclosure, when I did this, I had a Blender crash. And so part of the reason for the Blender crash as far as I could tell and I just took the file that um it gives me the crash file and I just pasted it right in here. But it seems to be unrelated. It seemed to be related to the fact that I haven't updated some older extensions from a while ago or some older plugins from a while ago. But if you do have anything like this crash or anything like that, paste the crash log back in here and see what it says. But now we're up and running. So, we're just going to say, "Okay, EVX updated. Now, can you test the connection again?" And honestly, we probably don't need to be doing this with Astra now that I think about it. Um, I just forgot to set it on something else. This isn't exactly like heavy duty coding or anything like that. Um, but it's going to go ahead and rerun that query, and it's going to tell us the connection's working. So now we're going to say great, let's model something in Blender. Add a blue sphere to the origin of the model. And we'll just test and see if it can create anything. Now, if this is all set up properly, what it should do is it should communicate with Blender, go in here, and add a blue sphere sitting right in the space right here. See how we're connected? So, if we wait just a second, it's going to go through. It's going to do that. It might ask for permission. So, we're going to go ahead and click on allow once. I might say allow for this conversation, like yes, I want this to be able to get scene information when I'm modeling. I want it to be able to get the add-on status. So, I'm going to allow it for the full conversation. Again, that's a security thing. You can just set it where you want to approve everything if you want. And so, notice that this is asking if it can run Blender code. So this tool is using code to create things inside of your viewport. So you can't really utilize this method without allowing it to execute that code. So you can see how this is basically using code in order to create the sphere in order to create the material, other things like that. Basically breaks this up into steps and um does them using code. I'm going to say allow once. You could also say allow for this conversation. Again, I want it to be able to execute code in Blender because that's what I want this to do. Um, as long as you're okay with the con security considerations. Um, and I'm going to go ahead and say allow once to allow it to get a viewport screenshot. Um, so that it can see what this looks like. And you can see how it did that inside of Blender. So now we're up and running and ready to model in Blender using AI. So let me know if you have any questions in the comments down below. As always, thank you so much for taking the time to watch this and I'll catch you in the next video. Thanks guys.